Having him in the apartment below mine threw me dangerously off-kilter.  It forced me to change everything.  I refused to relinquish my balcony to his smoke, so I started getting up early.  Out with my coffee at 5AM.  Back in before the hour was up.  No more sunrises.  Jogging was off the table.  Afterall, I might run into him on the streets.  I only left my place to stock up on food or go to work.  And I was leaving for work earlier and staying later.

My home was now a prison.

Strangely, he had done me the unexpected courtesy of taking the hint.  He came and left at his normal hours instead of adjusting to my new schedule.  He kept a comfortable physical distance between us when we had to talk.

Ryan noticed.  He sent an email asking what changed.  It stagnated in my inbox, marked as unread.  I had no idea how to respond.  A few days later, Ryan stopped by my desk while Switch was in a meeting.  He quietly asked if we could talk.  I shook my head.  He let me be.

The next morning, I awoke to a note slipped under my apartment’s door.  It sat politely between my work shoes and messenger bag.  A crinkled, folded over, half sheet of white paper.  Unclogged waste from the dinosaur printer.  A gift from Switch.  I drank my coffee sitting on the kitchen floor shoved into a corner.

I considered leaving it.  Pretending I had not seen it.  But that would only delay the inevitable.  If I ignored it, he would escalate until I paid attention.  And he would escalate quickly.  Reluctantly, I crept closer to the paper.  Pushed my shoes and bag away.  Picked up it like a limp pit viper that might have some life left in it.  It opened to a short, hand-written message:

<i>Hey,
Ryan’s worried about you.  He thinks I did something.  I told him I didn’t, but he doesn’t believe me.  Please tell him everything is okay between us.
Thanks
</i>
Crumpling the note, I hurled it at the door.  It ricocheted off and skittered noisily across the wood floor.  I slinked back into my corner.  Bumped my head against the lower cabinets.  The impact’s sharp <i>thunk</i> sounded louder than the resulting pain felt.

I stared into space.  I had long since given up processing <i>the Moment</i> we had in his apartment.  All I knew was that it was unquestionably a <i>Moment</i>.  What that meant in practical terms eluded me.  Why did I have to deal with his demons when I was still quieting my own?  Especially when Ryan had already committed himself to that hell.  And what was I supposed to say to Ryan?!

“Yeah, we’re fine.  Nothing happened.”  “Not like he’s been stalking me and moved into my apartment building.”  “He still gives me panic attacks, but we had a lovely chat about staying hydrated in hot weather!”

I put my mug on the counter, yanked myself to my feet, and stormed to the balcony.  Exited.  Cherry smoke.  I got as far as the railing before I stopped myself.  Screaming at him was pretty much the worst thing I could do.  And what would it accomplish?  Whatever the Moment meant, we had a solid truce again.  Do not fuck that up.  I wilted.  I stepped away from the railing.  I sat down on the concrete.

“Good morning, Charlie,” I said without looking at him.  “My life is in shambles right now.  How are you doing?”

Charlie was never much of a conversationalist.  His leaves rustled a bit in the breeze, but he was otherwise quiet.

“That’s good.  I hope you bloom soon too.  You deserve a nice flower.”  I chattered similar nonsense at him until I heard the door below me slide open and close.  Switch had finished his morning cigarette.  I dragged my defeated hide into the apartment and responded to Ryan’s email.

<i>Something happened.  I don’t want to say it was bad.  It was intense.  It’s hard to explain, and I’m still processing it.  He’s giving me more space now.  So, at least there’s that.
</i>
The time stamp in the screen’s lower righthand corner caught my attention.  Unless I got out the door asap, I would to be late to be early.  I was still in boxers.  Sighing, I closed the laptop and got dressed.

Work that day was fine.  Nothing happened.  Ryan never replied.  The external world was normal while my mind was a dumpster fire.  I spent that evening and Saturday cocooned in a blanket, watching inane tv.

Meanwhile, Switch had a grand time.  His music pulsed through the floorboards.  Something like dance pop.  Upbeat, fast, repetitive songs.  Clanging pots and pans eventually signaled dinner.   Drunken laughter followed until the obscene morning hours.

The kind of party I would have enjoyed if I were invited.  A chance to relive the dark glory days before I got clean.  As a sober outsider, it made me cringe.  If only I had cement floors to block the sound.  Needless to say, the party kept me up late.  To sleep, I plugged my headphones into the radio alarm clock, scrolled to non-channel static, and maxed the volume.

Sunday morning, I woke up half-strangled.  The headphones had slipped down and clamped around my neck.  Its cord twisted around my arms.  Untangling myself, I rolled out of bed.  I did not check the time, but the sun was well up.  The apartment was quiet.

Since he had been up partying all night, maybe I would have the balcony to myself.  I went straight out, hoping for clean air.  Smoke.  My shoulders sank.  Chocolate smoke though.  I leaned over the railing.  It creaked.

Ryan stood below me, smoking his Marlboro in nothing but a pair of jeans.  He looked up at the noise.  We stared at one another.  I lifted a hand and waved stiffly.  He took a deep drag on his cigarette, running a hand through his hair.  He flashed his open palm then disappeared into Switch’s apartment.

I stood there.  Continuing to stare dumbly into space.  Finally, it dawned on me what Ryan had signaled—five minutes.  I dashed back inside.  I threw on the nearest clothes.  I spent all of 10 seconds brushing my teeth and smoothing down my sleep-tousled hair.

And then I stood in the middle of the apartment.  Not sure what to do with myself.  I settled on kicking off the brewer and picking up obvious, easy-to-clean messes.

The knock came while I poured coffee.  I nearly smacked the Tech Wizard mug off the counter.  I rescued it at the expense of creating a caffeine tidal wave on the floor.  I swore at it.  Putting the pot back in place, I hopped over the spill to the door.

Tentatively, I opened it.  Ryan was there, of course, but also—I peered around him.  No.  Just Ryan.  Now wearing a great white shark t-shirt.  Switch was still downstairs.

I breathed an embarrassingly loud, relieved sigh.  “Hey.  Sorry, I didn’t mean to snoop.”  Shuffling out of the way, I waved for Ryan to come in.  He entered without speaking.  I compulsively filled the silence.  “I just thought that with all the partying last night that he wasn’t going to be out there, but then I smelled smoke, and it wasn’t like his Crossroads and… Yeah.  Curiosity.  I should have guessed it was you and left it alone.  Can I get you some coffee or something?”

“I think you’re losing it.”

“What?”  He pointed into the kitchen.  I turned around.  The pot was cattywampus in the machine.  Coffee drips snuck around it, sizzling on the heater plate.  “Shit.”

I clicked the pot into place.  And I had stepped into the coffee puddle.  “Feel free to sit wherever if you want.  I just need a minute to clean this.”  I grabbed half a roll of paper towels to mop up the spill.  Once the floor was clean enough, I looked up.  He was still standing.  I pointed at the brewer.  “Did you want any?”

“No.  And it’s going to be okay.”

“What?”

“I’m not happy I’m up here, but I’m not going to punch you again.”

“I—Okay.  Do you want to sit?”

“I hope I’m not here that long.”

“Okay.”  I stared at the floor.  “So, what are you going to say?”

“When were you going to tell me that you and Tim lived in the same building?”

“That… It’s a new thing.  I mean, you know that already.”

“No?”

I shook my head.  “Didn’t you do a house-warming thing with him last week?”

“This is the first time I’ve been to his place.  Did he have someone over then?”

“I don’t… know.  He said you were going to be there, and asked if I would come, and I said ‘no.’”

“And you didn’t think that was weird?”

“Why would I?”

“Didn’t you read my email?”

“From last weekend?” I felt my shoulders creep up.  “Not really…”

He threw his arms to his sides.  “My email said he was supposed to be busy helping his dad.  Why am I writing you emails if you’re not going to read them?”

“I’m sorry!  I don’t want to have to think about him on the weekends.  I thought you got that and that’s why you gave the answer I needed in the title.”

He covered his face with his hands.  “I write the emails, so when he lies to one of us, we have a better chance of catching it.”

“That… You… I didn’t know that.”  My shoulder hunched further.  “I didn’t know you know he lies.”

“Okay, I need the coffee after all.  Do you at least have sugar I can add?”

“Yeah, sugar and milk.  No creamer, sorry.”  Spinning around, I dug through the cabinets.  Luckily, a generic white and brown mug set had come with my dishes.  Hastily pouring, I had to stop myself from overfilling the mug.  He needed space for the add-ins.

Crossing his arms loosely, Ryan leaned back against the half wall bounding the kitchen.  I put his coffee on the wall beside him.  Then a half gallon of milk.  Then a one-pound sugar bag.

As he added the milk, “Can you get me a spoon?”

“Right, yeah, sorry.”  Frantically opening the silverware drawer.  Grabbing one.  Holding it out to him.  My arm shook.

“John.”

“Yeah?”

“I am not going to hit you.  Or scream at you.  Please.  Relax.”

“Sorry.”

“Stop apologizing.”

I gave a nervous laugh in place of apologizing for apologizing too much.  Anxiously, I took my mug.  Drinking would stifle my hysterics before they got out of hand.  Ryan added a half spoon of sugar to his coffee then stirred.  It was not lost on me that he was the first person to stir anything in that mug.

He took a sip then sighed.  “Yeah, I know he lies.  He lies a lot.  I’m a little insulted you thought I wouldn’t notice.”

“No one else does.”

“I guess.  They don’t spend time with him like I do though.”

“Sor—”

“Don’t.”

“Right.”  I had to get my thoughts in order.  So I could contribute rather than react.  “I guess I assumed no one would want to be friends with someone they knew was a liar.  And with the mess we got into with the burn scars…”

“I don’t know how much of that was a lie versus a misunderstanding.  Still…”  Ryan nodded.  “Tim carries around a lot of baggage that he doesn’t want anyone to see.  The lies protect him.  Even the pointless ones he tells to make himself look good.  I don’t hold it against him.”

“Yeah.”

“But this?  This is not okay.”  Ryan assertively tapped on the half wall.  I shrunk into myself, expecting a lecture on how I should have kept him in the loop.  “I refuse to believe he moved here by accident.”

“He admitted that he did it on purpose.  Said it was an impulsive decision.”

“How is—!?  Never mind.  That <i>is</i> the kind of thing he would do on impulse.”  Ryan gave a pained smile before drowning it in coffee.  “I’ll talk to him.”

“That might make things worse.”

“I’m trying to teach him to stop freaking you out.”

I snorted.  “Good Luck.”

“Keep the attitude.  Just because you can’t handle Tim doesn’t mean I can’t.  What right do you have to judge him, anyway?  He’s doing the best he can with the hand he was dealt, and it was a pretty shit—”

“You have no fucking idea the baggage I carry around!  And I don’t act like he does!”  Ryan’s jaw hung slack.  Even I was surprised the hiss came out of me.  I looked down.  “Sorry.”

“No, it’s okay.  I’m not here to judge you or prod at your scars.  I can take honesty.”

“Thanks.”  I worried at my mug’s handle.  “He brings out the absolute worst in me.  I don’t want to take it out on you.  Especially if you want to help him.  He said some stuff that… maybe I don’t see the whole picture of who he is.”

“You don’t, but that’s okay.  I just want you two to stop triggering one another.”

I eased back like I had put down a heavy load.  “That sounds wonderful.”

“Good.  So, I’ll talk to him about what he did and how it was inappropriate.  Don’t expect an apology—”

“I don’t need one.”

Ryan kept talking over me.  “—But I’m going to need you to read my emails.  <i>And give me details back.</i>  It helps both of us.”  I nodded.  He took a deep breath and the tension in his stance eased off.  I was insanely jealous that he could keep his cool in this nightmare.  “One more thing.”  I glanced up.  “You’re not sleeping with him, are you?”

“Are you fucking kidding me?”  I cringed so hard it hurt.  “Fuck no!  I don’t swing that way, but even if I did—!”

“Sorry.”  He held up a hand to stop me.  “Last night he was bragging about getting with someone at work.  I didn’t know if he was for real or not, but he’s a little obsessed with you.  And your last email was weird.”

“That’s not what I meant.  He’s all yours.”  Ryan cringed this time.  I shallowed hard.  “Sorry, bad assumption.”  Ryan looked away.  Fuck.  <i>Correct</i> assumption.  Never should have said it.  Ryan struggled for words.  I tried to guess what he wanted to say.  “I’m not going to tell anyone else that you’re… spending so much time with him outside work.”

“Thank you.”

We stood in silence while Ryan finished his coffee.  There was an awkward goodbye when he left.  The screaming started an hour later and lasted about ten minutes.  I suffered one interaction with Switch the next week, and it was short.  In retrospect, I have come to appreciate that Ryan possessed the patience of a saint, the wrath of a god, and the miraculous ability to choose when to use each power.
