We picked up dinner around 3PM.  Canadian winters are marked by such short days and long nights.  He worried we would miss the next McDonalds though the snow and darkness.  We used the drive through this time.  Between the argument at the gas station and the spin out, he felt we had lost too much time to spare another stop.  Not that I wanted to eat that early anyway.

The problem was he disapproved of eating in his car.  So, we sat there.  With cold fast food making the cabin smell like grease.  For hours.  The sky faded from storm cloud grey to black.  At least the snow let up.

My concern started rising when we left the freeway.  Streetlamps stood too far apart.  The white blanket on the roads was untouched.  No buildings for miles.  We crawled through unploughed snow as he fought to keep the car straight.

I exhaled sharply.  “Is it possible you took a wrong turn?”

“No.”

“We’re in the middle of nowhere.”

“That’s Canada for you!”  He laughed.

“For real, this isn’t a highway.”

“It’s not supposed to be.”

My pulse throbbed through my neck.  “Why not.”

“Consider it a detour?”

“Why in the fu—!?”  I stopped myself.  Took a long, deep breath.  We had agreed on politeness given, politeness granted.  Civility was my only chance at a real answer.  The crackling of his suppressed laugh filled the car.  “Why are we taking a detour?”

“It’s kind of a surprise.  Do you really want me to spoil it?”

“Please.”

“Well… we’re not staying in a hotel tonight.”  He paused, listening to the scream I swallowed down.  “Check the glove compartment.”

At that point, I was done.  Too tired to disobey and barely able to comply, I flicked my hand at the latch.  It took a few tries to catch it.  The glove compartment dropped open.  Car manuals.  A puny, hand ice scrapper.  I snorted at that.  He willingly bought that useless thing but not the snow shovel. 

Finally, I noticed a metal shine.  I pulled out two keys on a ring.  It also had a keychain.  A pine tree.  It looked eerily similar to the Alpine logo.  Maybe that was where he got the inspiration for the design.

He tapped energetically on the steering wheel.  “Are you excited?”

“I don’t know what it’s for.”

“My dad’s cabin.”

I blinked.

“Before you get upset, there are two bedrooms, so you’ll get your own space.  Just like our arrangement back home.  Or you can lock yourself in the master bathroom if that feels right to you.  I want you to be comfortable while you’re my guest.”

“Why does your dad own a cabin out here?”  A pointless question.

“I’ll have you know that I am one quarter Canadian.” A meaningless answer that was more than likely a lie.

“You’re messing with me, right?”

“No.”

He slowed at a sign bearing the same tree logo as the keychain.  <i>Juniper Grove</i>.  It sounded like a planned community.  Though, it was beyond me what kind of person would want to live in the middle of this barren tundra.

He turned left onto an unlit a road.  It snaked through sparce tree cover.  There was so little difference between the road and the woods, that the best markers for where one ended and the other began were the sagging, snow-laden pine branches.  If we passed any cabins in the dark, I did not see them.
	
He really struggled to keep the car moving now, but, for some reason, he maintained the banter.  “I thought it was a good way to cut some costs on the trip.  At least monetary costs.  Convincing my dad to give me the keys was pretty exhausting.”  He stuttered his next words as the car rolled over something under the snow.  We had over a foot of it now, so the bump could have been anything.

“Are you sure you can talk right now?”

Through gritted teeth, “It’s fine!”  He manhandled the steering wheel around a tight curve.  “I was just telling you that my dad is a jerk.  I showed him the entire plan and the conference brochure, and he still would not believe that I wanted the cabin for a work trip.”

He raised his voice over the crescendoing, crunching snow.  “I had to get the pre-approval stamps from Boss on the plan before Dad accepted that I was telling the truth.  Even then, he made me <i>sign a contract</i> that if I wrecked the place I had to pay for the damages.  He’s a lawyer.”

“Have you wrecked his stuff before?”

“Being a teenager was difficult for me, remember?  He never forgave me for that.”  We were thrust forward as the car suddenly stopped.  The wheels buzzed as they spun.  He looked blankly at me.  “Um?”  I thought he should already know what the problem was and the solution.  So, I stared at the AC vent without acknowledging him.  He released the accelerator and tested it again.  And then again.

“Please stop spinning the wheels,” I groaned.

“I… get the feeling this is a get out and push scenario?”

“It’s a scenario where having a shovel to dig you out would have been nice.”

“Noted.  Maybe there’s one at the cabin you can use?”

“How far away is it?”

“About a mile?  Maybe two?”

I had no intension of walking through miles of deep snow in jeans and tennis shoes.  “I’ll try pushing first.”  I had to use all my weight to shove the door open.  Looking at that endless white was enough to make me feel the awful chill on my legs.

“You’re letting the cold in.”

Shaking my head, I hopped out.  Several inches of snow rode up my jeans.  Past my socks.  Ice straight on my skin.  I hissed out a breath.  Hobbling back a few steps, I put my hand on the door to close it.  I hesitated.  “If you drive off without me, I will kill you.”

He grinned, about to make some playful remark.

“I’m serious.”

His smile faded.  “I had no intention of leaving you.”

From him, that was hardly reassuring.  But what else could I ask for?  I shut the door and walked around the car.  The left front tire was the main culprit.  Caught in a slick divot, it needed a new surface to get traction.  I kicked up the snow in front of that tire.  The right front tire got the same treatment.  I left the back two alone.  Somehow, I doubted his sportscar had all-wheel drive.

Returning to the driver’s side door, I knocked on the window.  He looked up but did nothing else.  I pointed down.  He stared at me.  I crossed my arms.  Finally, he rolled the window down a fraction of an inch.


I huffed.  “Leave that open.  You need to be able to hear me.  When I give you the word, tap the accelerator <i>gently</i>.  We need traction, not speed.”

“Okay.”

I circled to the car’s back, shivering.  Hating the snow on, under, and in my shoes and jeans.   Melting against my body heat, its dampness was an open invitation for the cold.  I put my hands on the trunk.  Double checked that I had solid footing.  Nodded.  “Hit it!”

The engine hummed.  The wheels spun futilely.  I gave the best heave I could, pushing until I felt the car pull out from under me.  It rolled forward a few feet, and I dropped to one knee.  He was good for his word this time.  He stopped instead of gunning it.  Shaking off as much snow as I could, I returned to the passenger side and got in.

He resumed driving, but, without our previous momentum, the way forward was arduous.  Every uneven patch jerked the car right or left.  Turning the wheel become a feat of strength.   Everything he had went into keeping us on that narrow road.  Nothing was left over for talking.

Or so I thought, until the muttering started.  By the ten-minute mark, he swore freely between pants.  His usual smugness put me on edge, but his desperation made me want to pull myself apart.  It had to stop.

In the quietest voice I could manage over the crumpling snow, “Maybe I could take over for a bit.”

“You’re not driving my car.” 

“You’re exhausted.”

“I don’t care!”

“Okay.  How about you take a breather then?”

“I want to get to the cabin.”

“You really—”

He turned and his eyes caught mine.  “Would you SHUT the FUCK UP?!”

I sank back.  He refocused on the wheel.  I opened my mouth again.  “I think—”

“BACK OFF.”

“I’m trying—"

He switched the car into park and wrenched himself around to face me full on.  “You are making everything worse.  If you would just SHUT UP, we would already be at the cabin!”

I reached the end of my capacity to feel fear.  “You’re a fucking shit driver, and if you would get over yourself then, yeah, we <i>would</i> already be there!”

He reached for his seatbelt buckle.

I covered it with my left hand.  Undid mine with my right.  Whirled my back to the dash.  Positioned myself to take control.  Running on too much adrenaline for his dead eyes to set me off, I stared him down.  “Try me, bitch.”  

His eyes were dull.  Recalibrating.  Slowly, tonelessly, “What do I get if I let you drive my car?”

“What do you want?”  My voice sounded just as monotone.  In hindsight, that frightens me.  At the time, all I cared about was getting the deal struck.

“You don’t get your own room tonight.  You don’t have to sleep in my bed, but there will be no doors between us.  I need to be able to see you.”

“Why?”

“Take it or leave it.”

Watch him have a nuclear meltdown and fight through unknown fallout all night or get him out of his self-imposed hell and present him with a win to keep the peace.  Shitty choices, but the lesser evil was obvious.  “Done.  Get out of the car.”

“No.  You get out and walk around.”

“Fuck you.”  Still, I turned away and got out.  Slammed the door.  Stalked around the car to driver’s side.  He stayed buckled in.  Through the closed window, “MOVE.”

Tossing his head like a petulant child, he unbuckled and slid over to the passenger side.  I got in.  My legs were longer than his, so I should have adjusted the seat.  Except that would escalate the situation.  Leaving the seat in place, I buckled in.  I ignored the fact that he left his seatbelt unbuckled.

One deep breath.  I pressed the accelerator.  Despite my crammed legs, I was fresh and experienced with snow driving.  It was easy to get us moving at a reasonable pace.  The cabin was in sight five minutes later.

I had hoped he used the term “cabin” loosely.  That this was a small house in the wilderness, and not the Lincoln log dwelling that comes to mind when I picture a cabin.  It was a genuine cabin.  The wood was paler and it was better constructed than my mind’s prototype, but the single-story building had the log panes, boxy shape, and sharp, peaked roof I expected.

There was no garage as far as I could tell.  Though, all I could see in the dark was the cabin and one stray tree on the right.  Pulling up, I kept his side as close to the door as I could.  I killed the ignition.  I sat back.  He had been dead silent since we switched.

I had to reestablish the game rules.

Gripping the steering wheel hard, I stared down at my feet.  “I’m sorry I lost my temper.  I know your car is a big deal for you.  I’m not trying to mess with your turf.  I just wanted to make this easier for you.”

“You’re not getting out of our deal.”

“I’m not asking to.  I am trying to make peace.  Is there anything else you want me to say or do?”

“Get out of the car.”

“Okay.”  I did as he asked.

He crawled back into the driver’s seat and left the car from there.  “You should have parked the driver’s side closer to the cabin.”

“Sorry.”  I stepped back, so he could get by me.

As he pulled out his suitcase, “Get the keys.” Again, I did as he asked.  I also grabbed my duffle bag and the food.  I joined him at the door.  He held out his hand expectantly.  I gave him the cabin keys.  “Stay here.”

He opened the door.  I obediently stood in place.  He entered.  The door closed.  He locked it and walked away.  The lights turned on.  His figure passed before the window.  Then, I saw nothing else.

My legs felt like icicles.  Soon, my hands would too.  I knew he would let me in eventually, but, until then, I had to shut up and take it.
