I took the conversation with Ryan seriously.  It was the reality check I had been craving.  Sure, Ryan was blind the darkness I saw, but we both knew Switch’s behavior was an act.  We both wanted the lying to stop.  I bought Ryan the gift certificate.

It still felt impersonal, so I also bought a squishy, shark-shaped stress toy.  And I added a note apologizing for not reading his emails.  I put them in his desk drawer one morning when I was the first one in the office.  It felt weird to hide a thank you gift, but what choice did I have?

Naturally, I did what I promised: reading the emails and responding with anything I knew.  I told Ryan when Switch woke up and went to bed.  Which nights he was in versus out.  Whether it sounded like he had someone over.

A part of me questioned whether this counted as stalking Switch.  Then again, he clearly wanted this kind of attention.  He loved infringing on my mental space.  I might as well put that to good use.  The lengths I went to rationalize this bizarre behavior is obvious to me now.  At the time, I thought I was reacting sensibly to the situation.

Those “sensible reactions” also included less and less time on my balcony.  Cherry smoke became a permanent fixture there.  I still went out to check on Charlie, but I moved the plastic table and chair inside.  I watched sunrises behind the safety of a glass door.  It was not the same.  I lamented that fact the morning I made a terrible decision.

The day in question was a week and a half after Ryan screamed at Switch.  I had finished the final iteration of Alpine’s security protocols.  That meant it was time to start talking safety.  We had a full team meeting with Boss scheduled first thing that morning.

Boss was nothing like Switch, but he intimidated me a bit.  I associate big, bald guys in suits with bad things.  I know what baggage <i>that</i> is attached to.  There is no reason to get into it here.  Anyway, Boss had this booming “listen to me” voice.  I was impressed a southerner could hit that volume.  It seemed at odds with his smooth accent.  But in a good way.  The accent softened a tone that would otherwise come off as yelling.  Deep down, I think he was an okay guy.  Still, he made me nervous.

I made sure I had everything in order, so Boss would not single me out.  Especially since Dave habitually answered questions directed me if I was too slow.  That was the one thing about Dave I did not admire.  So, I had prepared as many shorthand answers on one sheet of notebook paper as I could fit.  Hopefully, if I rapid-fire answered questions, it would prove to Dave and Boss that I could hold my own.  I checked my notebook one last time to make sure the page still existed and then packed it into my messenger bag.

I followed the stairs down.  It seemed like Switch was uninclined to use a staircase if an elevator existed.  Taking the stairs meant safety and got me some exorcise.  A good combination.  I left the building and walked to my car.  As usual, my beat-up, black, economy 2-door was sitting to the right of to his shiny, sandy-tan 4-door.  I made a point to park away from him after every workday.  He made a point to move his vehicle next to mine during the night if the opportunity presented itself.  It startled me the first few times, but now it was just a part of life.

Figuring out where to place my car so he could not end up next to mine had become its own sort of game.  I discovered way too much about which cars preferably parked where and for how long.  There were no assigned spots, but I got the feeling that the white car with the dog lover bumper sticker belonged to someone who had unofficially claimed the spot under the maple tree.  I believed that person got upset when one of us took it.  I did my best to avoid the spot.  I think Switch got the same sense I did.  Any time I got my car blocked off from him, if the maple tree spot was open, he inevitably ended up in it.  I sacrificed myself once or twice, parking where he could squeeze in next to me, to help the owner of the white car maintain sanity.

After putting my messenger bag in the passenger seat, I got in my car.  I started up the engine, shifted into reverse, coasted backwards, and FWUMP FWUMP.  Oh no.  I pulled back in, feeling the car bouncing around like a grumpy horse.  I killed the engine and got out.  The front tires were fine, but the back right one was totally flat.  Immediately, I suspected him, but I blamed him for all sorts of random mishaps at that point.

I checked the tire for cuts and holes, but it seemed to be intact.  The tire valve, on the other hand, was not doing great.  The valve was almost off the tire.  I checked the edge where it should have attached.  It felt crumbly.  Maybe natural wear and tear was the culprit.  I stood up and sighed loudly, running a hand through my hair.

Options: One, swap out to the spare, which would take me thirty minutes by myself.  Assuming I could find someone to borrow a jack from.  Two, try to hail a taxi from the sidewalk and deal with the tire later.  Assuming an available taxi would pass by within a reasonable timeframe.  I was not happy with the time component of either option.

Option three presented himself.  “Morning, what are you still doing here?”  Switch hovered by his car with one hand on the trunk and the other jangling his keys.

I shrugged and waved weakly at the tire.

He came around to look.  “Oof.  Wasn’t like that last night.”

“Do you normally look at other people’s tires?”

“No, just yours.”  The ease with which he said that was distressing.  “What’s wrong with it?  I mean other than the obvious.”

“The valve.”

He poked at the tire with the toe of his shiny, leather work shoes.  “Will you need to replace it?”

“Probably.”

“You know what I’m going to offer.”

“Yeah.”

“No pressure.”  He laughed.  “I mean, no pressure to ride with me.”

I could not be late for that meeting.  There is no way he would vouch for me and my car troubles if I rejected his invitation.  The potential drama of the worst-case scenario made me queasy.  I swallowed.  “Okay.”

“O-kay?”

“It just makes sense.  If you’re seriously offering, then I’ll take it.”

He stood frozen.  Recalibrating.

“You didn’t expect me to say ‘yes.’”

“No.”

“Was it even a real offer?”

A long pause.  “No, it is.  It is.”  He looked at his vehicle.  “No one else has been in my car.”  Another pause.  He broke it with his genial laugh.  “We should get going before we’re both late.”

He got in.  I grabbed my messenger bag from my car and anxiously followed suit.  There was an odd smile on his face as I did.  It gave me the sense that getting me in his car had become more important to him than getting me into his apartment had been.  I had no idea what that meant.  He rolled down the windows and pulled out of the spot.  The left out of the parking lot brought him to a red light, so he took the opportunity to play around with his stereo.  Dance pop blared out at high volume.  He dialed it down, pulled out a cigarette, and said, “You don’t mind, right?”

“Your car, your rules.”

“I <i>like</i> that.”  The light turned green.  He accelerated through the intersection while trying to get that gold lighter out of his pocket.  “This is nice.  I haven’t had a lot of chances to talk with you alone lately.  Ryan’s still angry that I moved.  He’s so tiresome when he’s angry.  I wish you hadn’t told him.”

“He saw me on the balcony.  Things went from there.”

He grinned as he lit the cigarette.  “Do you normally snoop down on me?”

“No.”  Without thinking, I elaborated.  “Normally, I can smell your Crossroads.  That’s how I know if you’re out.  That cherry smell.”  He paused mid-drag.  “You knew that already.”

“I didn’t know they smelled like cherries to you.”

I was already down a hole.  The depth made no difference.  “Actually, it’s like more like burnt cherry cough drops.  It’s gross.”

He shook his head.  “Talking with you is surreal.  I never know what level we’re on.”

“Level of what?”

“You know what I mean.”

I felt a pulse of the dizziness go through me, because I did know.  Our discourse could flash between taking his mask at face value to speaking directly to the thing underneath it.  Since he had moved in though, we were stabilizing at a buoyant point.  I spoke at mask while referring to his real self in the subtext of what I said.  We maintained a meta-conversation that seemed to be the real thing both of us wanted to talk about.

He said, “You’re going pale again.”

“Good thing I’m already sitting down.”

He chuckled.  He left me alone for a few minutes to get my head back in order.

When I felt grounded again, I said, “You told me I’m not the first person to see your ‘intensity.’”

He tsked.  “Not before work.  It’s hard to get off that level once you get me on it.  They don’t want to see it.”

“Are you expecting to take me home too, or should I be ready to get a cab?”

He paused, sensing my unspoken request to reschedule that chat.  “I don’t like to plan that far in the future.  It’s too restricting.”

I almost asked another question but stopped myself.

“What?”

“You said you don’t want to go there right now.”

“Now, you’re just teasing me!”

“I’m not trying to.  Sorry.”

He was uncharacteristically silent as we finished the drive into work.  He even dropped me off at the front door before pulling into the garage.  I made it on time for the meeting, though Ryan and Dave were already in the room.  Ryan gave me a look when I walked in.  I raised my eyebrows sheepishly, hoping he would know that I intended to explain why I was late, for me anyway, later.  It was not a conversation to have with Dave in the room.  Boss walked in laughing with Switch a few minutes later.

The meeting went okay.  Dave stepped on my toes a few times, but I was able to answer most of the questions before he jumped in.  He also saved correcting me on a few details for after the meeting, which I am infinitely grateful for.  However, we went straight from the meeting to planning the code infrastructure for the safety shut offs.  What inputs we would need from the hardware, what to do about criterion we could not measure directly, what to do when multiple things went wrong at once. 

We called Ryan and Switch over dozens of times to clarify what exactly the hardware did and whether certain fail-safes were going to work even if the software got corrupted.  Dave finally ended the meeting when said he had to take off and pick up his youngest from daycare.  As he walked out, I looked around the office.  Ryan had already left.  Switch was sitting at his desk with a glass of Janice’s iced tea and a new plant she had split from one of her favorites, a peace lily.  Okay.  If Switch was going to drive me, then I would just email Ryan when I got home.

I turned around in my chair, and before I could ask him, he said, “Are you ready to go?”

“Yeah.”

He took one last sip of the iced tea and placed it on his desk.  About half of it remained.  He walked over to my cubicle, while I got my notebook in my bag.  Once I was on my feet, he held out the plant, saying “Since I’m driving, would you be a dear and hold onto this?”

“Sure.”  I took it.  The new plant looked a little mangled.  It was floating in a blue-tinted glass vase of water.  I laughed to myself that this was probably the only plant that I would be able to keep alive.  If it could survive swimming like that, then there would be no way I could overwater it.  If I put it in a big enough tank, I would never forget it so long that it ran out of water.  It was a shame that it was going to him.

I followed him out to the parking garage, getting shivers when we entered the third floor.  It was hard not to think about what happened the last two times I was there.  There would be no horror show today though.  He went straight for his car, got in, rolled down the windows, got his music playing, and started up a cigarette.  I tossed my messenger bag in the back seat, so I could hold the plant on the short drive.

Through a flume of smoke, he said, “I’ve been looking forward to this all day.”

“The cigarette?”

He snorted.  “You can be a right brat when you want to, you know that?”

“I’ll restart the conversation once you start driving.”  Self-preservation before curiosity.  There was a good chance he would lie, give me non-answers, or say something so outrageous that I would need space to recover immediately.  I did not want to prolong the interaction by talking while the car was parked.

He shifted into drive and pulled out of the spot.  “Ask away.”

“Were you like this with the other people who saw you?”

“No.”  He took hard drag on his Crossroads.  I waited.  “Most of them tried to rip my life apart.  You let me be.  That’s never happened before.  Why?”

“Why didn’t I out you?”

“Yeah.”

“That would have just caused a lot of drama.”

“YES!  That’s it!  Why doesn’t anyone else get that?!  Why do we have to have the drama?  I understand that, for people like you, the whole scenario is a little strange— it is for me too — but that doesn’t mean it has to devolve into a witch hunt.”  His focus darted between me and front window as he spoke.  He drifted dangerously close to one of the garage’s support beams.

“Hey, you should—"  He had already followed my gaze to the beam and corrected away from it.  With a smug smile, he turned back to me, ready to keep talking.  He startled when we rolled over one of the speed bumps at the entrance.  He huffed as he accepted that he needed to watch where he was driving.  

“The drama is so exhausting.  I mean, even when you collapse into a heap, all I have to do is give you a few minutes to recover and we’re good.  That’s easy.”

“Less easy for me.”

“You seem to be getting used to me.  I mean look at yourself.  You’re in my car, holding my things, having a conversation with me.  Could you imagine yourself doing that a few weeks ago?”

“No.” Numbness makes it easier to soldier through horrible things though.

“I thought I had made a mistake when I moved in below you.  It got Ryan on my case.  I ended up seeing less of you.  But now we’re here.  What did I do right?”

“You’re being more honest.”  Relatively more honest.  Only relatively.  “It’s the bullshit I can’t handle.”

He thought about that for the entirety of one song.  When the next track picked up, he said, “There was something else you wanted to ask.”

“I’m still processing what you said.”

He clicked his tongue, disappointed.  “Well, can you at least tell me what the question was?  I can answer you later.”

“I would rather hear your gut response.  Not what you’ll say if you have time to think about it.”

His expression went blank.  He spent the rest of the ride engaged with the traffic and his Crossroads.  Meanwhile, I honestly was processing what he said.  By my own estimation we were achieving balance.  Did that mean there was some sweet spot where this <i>thing</i> would stabilize for the long term?  Ryan had said that he wanted to find a way for me and Switch to stop triggering one another.  I assumed that meant zero contact.

No matter what, Switch would always be a massive drain on me.  But maybe, at least for now, I could occasionally talk to him without feeling like I was dying.  That would keep him happy and avoid the drama that we both agreed was undesirable.  When he pulled into the parking lot at Blossom, he, naturally, ended up in the space next to my crippled car.  I groaned when I remembered why I was riding with him.

He asked, “What’s up?”

“I still have to get the spare on my car so I can get a new tire.  Or more likely new <i>tires</i>.  If one went, the others might go soon too.”

“Do you want a hand?”  I gave him a suspicious look focused on his smile, not his eyes.  “What?  I’ve changed a tire before.”

“Why are you offering to help?”

“I wanted us to be neighborly, remember?”

“Right.  No.  I think I’m okay.  I’d rather do it myself.”

“Your car, <i>your</i> rules?”

I snorted despite myself.  “Something like that.”  I made to unbuckle my seatbelt.

He touched my wrist, and I froze.  “Hey, maybe we could carpool more often?  It’s supposed to be good for the environment or something, right?”

“I don’t… Too much of you is too much.  I think we should keep distant until we have to interact.  Then it’ll be easier on me when we do.”  I realized I was just talking about myself.  That meant nothing to him.  “And more fun for you.”

“Okay…” He started tapping on the steering wheel.   “But if I have to give you a lot of space, then if I ask for your time, you have to give it to me.  That’s only fair, right?”

It did sound fair.  I also did not want him to abuse that.  “Make it count.”

“Deal.”  He took the plant from me and hopped out of the car.  As soon as I was out and had my bag, he locked up.  He took one step towards the apartment building then stopped.  “One last thing.”

I flinched.  “Yeah?”

He held out the peace lily.  “Do you want this?  You were admiring it back at the office.”

“Janice gave it to you.”

“And?  It’s not like she’s ever going to see my place.  I always go to hers.  Plus, what am I going to do with it?”

“Why did you take it if you didn’t want it?”

“It made Janice happy to give it to me.  What did I have to gain from stopping her?”

I shook my head, not comprehending.

“Do you want it or not?”

I did.  “No.  It doesn’t feel right to take it.”  Even if he was just going to let it die.

“Your loss.”  He went inside, leaving me alone to deal with my flat tire.  Acquiring a jack, getting the spare on, buying the new tires, and installing them took the rest of my afternoon and part of the evening.  In the flurry, I forgot to email Ryan.
