He left me out in the frigid night with my duffle bag in one hand and the food in the other for twenty minutes.  Fingers: ice.  Ears: red and aching.  I pulled up the collar of my ski jacket to breathe through it as a makeshift scarf.  The very real threat of frostbite was ringing through my brain the entire time.  But the door did finally open.

In the time he had been inside, he had showered and changed into a cashmere turtleneck.  It smelled like he had had a drink or two as well.  He seemed relaxed, but I could tell he was still on his game.  His one hand gripped the door and the other the doorframe, preventing me from forcing my way in.  Not that I intended to try that.

With a smirk, he let go of the door and pulled out his car keys.  The car’s locks clicked open.  “I want my cigarettes.”

I nodded and put down my duffle bag.  I got the carton out and returned to the door.  He was still blocking my way in.  My heart sank.  This punishment would continue.  I held the carton out to him with my head down.

He reached down to grab the strap of my duffle, laughing.  “You really thought I was going to keep you out there, didn’t you?  Get in here.”  When he stepped out of the way, I had to stop myself from running inside.  Walking into the warm cabin made my skin burn like I had jumped into boiling water, but it felt so good.

The main room had three sections.  There was a little reading nook to my left.  Three filled bookshelves, a comfy, oversized, tan chair, and a reading lamp on a rustic table.  A round, worn rug connected it all as a unit.  Further back in the room was a big kitchen with a bar counter and three stools.  To the right of that was a staircase up and then a wall with two doors.  I assumed one door was the bathroom, and the other a bedroom, so probably the second bedroom he had mentioned was upstairs in the attic.  

Most of the main space, though, was a sitting area.  One long couch, two more of the oversized chairs, a wooden coffee table with a glass of wine on it, a fewer smaller furniture pieces, and the only thing in this goddamn room that meant anything to me: a lit fireplace.

I stepped towards it, but he caught my arm.  “Shoes off.  I don’t want you to track snow in.”

After casting a longing look at the fire, I held up the bag of food and the cigarettes.  “Where should this stuff go?”

“I’ve got it.”

He put down my duffle bag by a coat tree and grabbed the box and bag.  While I got my shoes off, he tossed the Crossroads onto the couch.  Then, he went to the kitchen to start microwaving his food.  I hanged my ski jacket on the coat hanger and made a bee line for the fireplace.  I got down to the floor and sat cross-legged way too close to it.  The heat felt incredible.

At some point he said he was putting my duffle bag upstairs, but it barely registered.  I had my eyes closed as I focused on the life coming back into my body.  The searing pain in my extremities slowly gave way to pins and needles and then a dull vibration.  I heard him sit down and slide something towards me.  I opened my eyes to look.  It was a steaming plate of soggy fries and burger.  He was already demolishing his share.

I picked up the plate and put it on my lap.  “Thanks.  You didn’t have to do heat it for me.”

“Tonight, you are my guest, remember?”

“Does this mean you’ve forgiven me?”

“For what?”

“Please.  I just want to know if we’re even now.”

Irritation distorted the singsong quality of his voice.  “You still owe me what we agreed on.”

“<i>I know</i>.  I’m not trying to get out of it.  I just want to know whether everything will be okay if I do that.”

He sighed loudly.  “Yeah.”

“Thanks.”  I ate mechanically.

He got up long enough open the carton of Crossroads, take a pack, and grab his glass of wine.  He swirled the glass in my line of sight.  “Still don’t want any?”

Every cell in my body was screaming for it.  However, the most potent form of self-control is absolute fear.  “No.  I’m good.”  I looked around the room again, rubbing at the itch on my left palm, as he went through his pack opening ritual to light up his first cigarette in at least three days.  “No tv?”

“What, can’t you enjoy an evening without one?”

“For checking the weather.”

“The snow was supposed to stop tonight.  And it did.”  He finished his wine.  I hoped it was his second or third glass.  Maybe if he finished a bottle by himself, he would just conk out tonight.

“Okay.”

I ate in silence.  He left me once to get more wine, but otherwise, stared at me the entire time.  I got up to wash my plate, but he grabbed my wrist and took it from me.  “I’m the host,” he reminded me.  He took it into the kitchen.  I stood awkwardly in place, unsure what I was supposed to do here.  I checked my watch.   It was going on 8PM.  It felt like it should have been closer to midnight.  Between his presence and the endless dark, my already fragile sense of time shattered.

My legs were sore and sitting on the floor again was going to hurt, so wandered over to the couch and settled down on the left end.  He joined me soon after, sitting directly beside me.  There was no ash tray, so he snuffed out the butt of the first cigarette on the wood table before going straight into his second.

I crossed my arms and scooted slightly further away from him.  “I don’t know what you want.”

“I want to talk to you.”

“Okay.”

Smoke inhaled and exhaled.  The crackling of the flames in the fireplace.  The scent of charred pine tar and cough drops.  The throbbing in my joints eased away to nothing.  As if I had never been left in the cold.  He was halfway through the second cigarette before I said, “Normally, you lead our conversations.”

“This isn’t ‘normally.’”

“I don’t have anything to say.”

He huffed before taking another drag on his Crossroads.  “Come now, don’t do this to me.  I worked so hard for this.  <i>For us.</i>  You’re being such a disappointment right now.”

“How am I disappointing you?”

“Why did you have to push it the first night?”  My fingernails dug into my arms.  “If you had just been patient, we would have had <i>this night</i>.  This was the whole point of the trip.  Don’t you get that?  Tonight.  Now you’re too afraid to do it.”

“To do what?”

“Don’t you remember what you promised me?”

I choked back the words “what promise?”  I knew what he meant.  The day he moved in.  Honestly in exchange for me sitting through it.  “That promise was a lie.”

Instantly, he flipped to rage, “Excuse me!?  You don’t get to take it—!”

I spat out the breathless the words with almost no volume.  “You made the promise a lie.”

“I don’t know what that means.”  Toneless.

“You were faking being something else.  You faked being something that wanted to be good and didn’t know how.  I fell for it.  Congratulations.”  I curled into myself.  “You already know you won that one.”

After crushing the second cigarette, he lit up a third.  He blew the first puff of smoke directly into my face.  I pitched forward, coughing.  “Such a disappointment.”  

Between hacking fits, I said, “You get that I can’t stop you, right?  Just talk!”

“I can force you to hear me, but that doesn’t mean you’re listening.  The whole point was for you to listen to me.”

“I’m literally a captive audience.  What more do you want?”

He placed his index finger on my chin to tilt my face towards his, forcing me into to stare into his dead eyes.  “You have to want it.”  He dropped his hand.  I turned away so hard that it hurt my neck.  I was so damn exhausted with these games.  I just wanted it to stop.

The sing-song tonality returned.  “You know, I have these moments where I question why I’m interested in you at all.”  He picked up my left wrist and stared at the bandage across my palm.  “And then I remember.”  He let go, and my hand dropped limply to my side.  “It’s not fair that I’ve had to wait this long.  The worst part is you can’t even decide which level of me you want to talk to anymore.  That honeymoon period after I moved in was so wonderful.  We were so close to breaking the surface.  Why can’t we just go back there?”

“Because it was a lie.”

“Just because you got hurt doesn’t mean I was lying.”

“You lied.”

“You’re not ready to listen.”

I let him have the last word, and he gave up on talking.  He smoked his way through the rest of the pack.  I don’t know what time it was when he nudged me, saying, “You’re not sleeping there, remember?”  Barely awake, I groaned in response.  He grabbed my shoulder and shook me until I pushed him off.  “Change into whatever you want to sleep in.  That one” — He pointed to the door further from the staircase — “is the master bedroom.  I’ll see you there in a few minutes.”  He stood up and fiddled with the fireplace, so it would burn low throughout the night.


I wandered upstairs.  The top “bedroom” was just a storage space with a twin mattress laying on the floor.  I rifled through my duffle bag for my toothbrush, toothpaste, and the pajamas that I had bought for this trip but had not yet worn.  The tag was still on the pants.  After ripping it off, I grabbed a pillow and a warm-looking blanket from the bed, tossing my watch in their place.  I went back downstairs.  He had turned off most of the lights, but the fire in the fireplace was smoldering enough for me to see.  There was also a sliver of light filtering in from under the door to the master bedroom.

I got ready for bed in the main bathroom, thinking:  <i>Just two more days until Alaska.  One to the conference.  Then I avoid him until the demo, buy a plane ticket, and fly home without him.</i>  I accidently glimpsed myself in the mirror.  I looked like shit.  My eyes were bloodshot, my hair a disheveled mess, and I hunched over like a mangy rat.  I tried to stand up a little straighter, but somehow that made things worse.  It looked like I had lost some weight since we started the trip, which seemed insane; how could I have lost a noticeable amount of weight?  All I had done was sit in a car.  I turned off the light.  There were more immediate concerns than my appearance.

When I was changed with my teeth brushed, I left the bathroom.  I reached down to pick up the bed linens I had left by the door but stopped.  Even if he had drunk four glasses of wine, there would still be some in the bottle.  I turned to the kitchen.  There had to be some left.  I spotted the gleam of embers reflecting off the glass bottle.  One more time.  One more little lapse of judgement.  Just enough to get me through tonight.

My hands wrapped around the neck of the bottle.  Picking it up.  The weight was off.  Or rather, there was no weight.  The bottle was empty.  I upended it into my mouth to drink whatever spit clung to the glass.  At least I could get the taste.  The drops that reached my tongue were water.  He had rinsed it.   He had intentionally left me nothing.  I wanted to smash the bottle.  Shaking, I put it down gently.

I returned to my bed linens and dragged them towards the master bedroom.  My hand limply hanging on the doorknob.  Was I supposed to just walk in?  I knocked.  I heard a “come in” and entered, staring at the floor.  My mouth was dry when I asked, “Should I turn off the light?”

“Ideally, yes.”

I fumbled around on the wall, until I found and flipped the light switch.  I dropped the pillow and blanket immediately within the threshold and laid down on the hardwood floor with my back to the bed.

I heard him sit up and sigh.  “Really?”

“No doors between us and in sight.”

“That’s sort of cheating.  Are you really going to sleep on the floor?”  There was no point in answering.  I heard him grumble and move the sheets around.  Something landed beside me, and then he sat on the floor next to me.  He was on the verge of laying down.

I scrambled to sit up.  “You can’t sleep on the floor.”

“Why?”

There was no way to articulate how wrong and unfair it was.  It was self-evident.  He was breaking the laws of reality.  I should not have to defend it.  I sat there with my jaw hanging open, sure the words would come out at any moment.  There had to be words to fix this.

He pushed my jaw closed with his thumb.  “It would be wrong for a host to sleep on a bed while the guest is on the floor.  Don’t get me wrong, I will be very cranky tomorrow morning if I sleep down here.  But that is the price a good host pays.”

I whispered out a desperate, “No.”

“Or we could both get a good night’s sleep in the bed.  I prefer little spoon, but, if that’s not your thing, it is a queen.”

“Why do you even want this?  What difference does it make?!”

“To me?  None.  To you though…”  He stretched.  “You don’t want to sleep near me, because you think I’ll hurt you.  You don’t trust me.  Understandable.  The problem is I need you to trust me.  If I show you that I won’t hurt you when I have the full opportunity to do so, then you’ll have to trust me.  Then, we can start over.  You’ll listen.”

“I told you, I—”

“We’re not having this argument right now.  It’s your choice:  we can sleep together on the floor, or in the bed.  So, just pick the bed and save us both the misery.”

I said nothing.  I was sick of this kind of logic.  It was shallow, childish, and wrong.  And there was no way to win.  No way to even compromise.  I stumbled to my feet.  I dragged the pillow and blanket to the bed.  I set up as close to the right edge as I could.

“Good choice.”  A few moments later, I felt him settle himself in the middle of the mattress.  He yawned out a “Goodnight.”  Meanwhile, I was trying to get my heart to stop beating so fast that it hurt.   I accepted the fact that I was not going to sleep for the rest of this trip.

It turns out I was wrong about that.  I suppose I should have guessed I would end up unconscious.  I had almost fallen asleep on the couch with him in my space earlier.  There is a point where a person gets so exhausted that sleep can happen anywhere and under any circumstances.  I had hit that point.  I was not happy when he rudely shook me awake.

I pawed at him mumbling, “Get off.”  That made him shake me more violently.  Finally, I sat up, swiped at him, and snarled, “What?!”

His expression was blank.  His voice toneless.  “It started snowing again.”
