He took me up on our deal that Friday.

My morning started off well.  I honestly thought that I was making progress with him.  On the day after we drove together, I woke up to his car parked one space away from mine instead of right next to it.  A symbolic gesture that moved me more than I like to admit.  The rest of the work week had been busy but strangely uneventful.  He only said a good morning on his way in and a good evening on his way out.

I was impressed.  Confused, but impressed.  It demonstrated a level of self-restraint he had never shown towards me.  So, by Friday morning I was feeling better than I had in ages.  For once, I was okay.

I went so far as to sit at the threshold between my apartment and the balcony, mumbling nonsense at Charlie the entire time I drank my coffee.  That poor weed had become my living diary in a sense.  If my stress hurt it any, Charlie hid it well.  In fact, the flower bud had finally opened.  A perfect, fluffy, yellow circle bigger than a watch dial.  Charlie had outdone himself.  I hoped the bees would discover his labor.  It deserved to be admired.

When it was time to get to work, I found that Switch had left me a parking spot’s worth of space again.  Our new normal.  One I could get used to.  Sure, it was still creepy, but it was so much <i>less</i> creepy.  After everything else he had done, this would not spike my blood pressure.  So, I got into my car humming and pulled out of the parking lot in a fantastic mood.  It dampened a bit, when I realized that the tune stuck in my head was one of his pop songs, but that was what the radio was for.  I turned on the news and half listened for the remainder of the drive.  Walking into the office, I felt like things were going to be great.

And then he showed up late for work.

He did not say “good morning.”  Not to me.  Not to Bea.  Not to Janice.  Not to Ryan, Clara, or Dave.  No one was acknowledged.  A few people tried to initiate pleasantries with Switch, but it did not go well.  Snappy is too strong a word, but he was curt with everyone.

I had an email from Ryan by midmorning, demanding to know what happened.  It reminded me that I had never explained the carpool situation.  I gave him the rundown of the incident, ending with: “He seemed fine after that.  He seemed fine yesterday.  I don’t know what happened.”  Ryan never responded to that email.  When the time for a midmorning smoke break rolled around, Switch left without a word.  Ryan hurried after him.  Ryan returned early and alone.

By the end of the workday, I had overheard several coworkers anxiously gossiping about Switch and whether he was okay.  I was getting anxious about it too, though it was as much for his sake as mine.  Was this a private struggle of his or something he would inflict on me?  I should have known the answer.


The knock on my apartment door came around sunset.  I knew it would either be him or Ryan, because who else would knock on my door?  I pleaded for it to be Ryan, but I knew it was Switch before I opened the door.  Cherry smoke.  There was a door chain lock I had never used.  I clicked it into place before I cracked open the door.  He did not give me a chance to say hello.

“I can’t be alone right now.”  His voice was flat and factual.

“What?”

“I cannot be alone.”

“Is Ryan busy?”

“Everyone is busy.  Except you.  You’re never busy.”

“I mean…”  He was right, but I could still probably come up with a decent excuse.

He hissed, “We had a deal.  This is the wrong time to break it.”  

“I just wasn’t expecting you to ask so soon.”

“Are you going to let me in?”

Warning bells.  “Can we talk like this?”

A sigh.  “Yeah.”  The door strained inward against the chain as he bumped his back into it and slid down onto the floor.  His lighter was clicking.  The quiet whoosh of fire igniting paper.  The lighter snapped shut.

It felt weird to be standing while he was on the ground, even if I could not see him.  I moved my shoes and messenger bag aside and dropped down onto my bristly welcome mat.  “How many cigarettes have you gone through today?”

“I’m on my third pack.”

“Do you want to talk about it?”

“No.”  We sat in silence as I struggled to figure out what to say to him.  He had less tolerance for the quiet than I did.  “Some old drama found me.  Let’s leave it at that.”

“Okay.”  I fidgeted with the fibers of the mat.  “Is it going to mess up what you have now?”

“No.  I took care of it.  Being in damage control mode is exhausting though.  It’s so much easier to just walk away.”

I let out a fast breath.  “I feel you there.”

“Do you?”

“There’s a reason I hate drama.”

He gave a muted laugh.  “I guess that makes sense.”  Wisps of smoke drifted into my apartment.  “Trade you: one of your war stories for one of mine.”

“You first.”

“No, I asked, so you go first.”

I shifted uncomfortably.

“What?  Are you afraid I’ll screw you out of my half?”

“I guess.”

“You underestimate how much I like talking about myself.  You should be honored I want you to go first.”

I snorted.  “I guess that’s fair.”  My fingers laced together and came apart.  A part of me wanted to reward him for being, well, reasonable.  He had not demanded that I let him in.  He had not pulled some insane maneuver to get me to react.  Whatever story I chose, though, I could not let him see my real baggage.  “Back when I started college, there was this girl.  Really shy.  I introduced myself and asked her to eat lunch with me on the first day.  She started hanging around with me a lot after that.  It was nice since, ya know, I just started college.  I didn’t know anybody.  She got clingy.  I think she decided we were dating or something without asking me.  She got jealous when I would talk to other girls or even just my guy friends.  When I told her to back off, she threatened to kill herself.  It worked for a while, but eventually I decided I had to get her out of my life.”

“Did she do it?”

“No.”

“They never do.  She found someone else by the next week, didn’t she?”

I shivered.  “Yeah.”

“Did it make you jealous?”

I scoffed.  “No.”  A lie.  “I think she wanted me to feel jealous though.”

“Did she look at you when you walked by?  Did she snuggle closer to her next chump?”

I ignored the implication that I was the first chump.  “No.”

“Then she didn’t give a damn about you.”

That stung.  I guess it was stupid of me to think that episode was not a part of my baggage.  “What’s your story then?”

“The one I wanted to tell is disappointingly similar to yours.  I’m sad I didn’t go first now.”

“What was different?”

“I got the girl pregnant, and she expected me to marry her.”

The idea of him having a child, of there being a little version of him for the next generation, was chilling.  “S-so you have a kid?”

“Nah, she miscarried.  Too much stress.”

I felt guilty that something that horrible would be such a relief.

“Also, she did stare at me when she snuggled up to her next boyfriend.  They got married even though she still wants me.  We hook-up sometimes.”

“You’re joking.”

“When I’m in town and bored, she’s a good lay.”

I shook my head.  Why was I even surprised?

“I think I’m done with her though.”

“Why?”

“She’s telling me she’s pregnant again.  That it’s mine, and she wants to leave her husband to be with me.  Honestly, I don’t even think she’s pregnant, but, if she is, it’s not mine.  The timing doesn’t line up right.  Actually…”  His voice dropped and a darker edge creeped into it.  “I’m starting to wonder whether she was even pregnant the first time.  That miscarriage was so convenient.”  His voice jumped back up to its normal register.  “Basically, it’s a mess, and I’m tired of it.”

“So, that’s why you’re upset?”  He did not answer.  “Sorry, I shouldn’t have asked.”

“I don’t tolerate being lied to.”

“Ironic.”  I laughed bitterly.

“It’s not my fault everyone expects me to lie.”

That sense of talking to a younger me came again.

“Did it really not hurt you when your leech found a new guy?”

I hugged my knees.  “Maybe it hurt a little.”

He laughed.  “See?  You lie too.  And I hate it.  Why can’t we all say what we’re thinking?”

“Because the world doesn’t work like that,” I admitted.

“I don’t know if I want to talk anymore.  Are you sure I can’t come in?  Just to watch tv or something.”

“Is that really all you want?”

“I don’t want to be alone, and sitting on the floor sucks.”

The corner of my mouth twitched into a momentary smile.  “Yeah, it does.”

“So?”

This was a bad idea.  “I don’t really want your smoke in my apartment.”

“You have a balcony.  I can smoke out there when I need to.”

“I don’t really want it on my balcony either.”

“You’ll never trust me if you don’t give me a chance to prove I can be trusted.”

Well.  He was right about that.  But when did I say I <i>wanted</i> to trust him?  Deep down though, I did want to.  I wanted him to be something dangerous, but not irredeemable.  Misguided, blunt, a little selfish, but ultimately just trying to live with the cards we were dealt.  I wanted him to be what I was.
I swallowed on a dry mouth.  “If you mess this up, I will go nuclear on you.  You have no idea what drama looks like until you’ve crossed me.”

“Ooh, spooky,” he laughed.  Before I could rip him apart for making jokes, he continued, “I get it though.”

The fire in my stomach cooled.  I was going to take a stupid as hell risk.  Why?  Because I was damaged goods that wanted to connect with other damaged goods.  Great.  Fantastic reason.  I stood up, stretched the pins and needles out of my legs, and unhooked the door chain.

When I opened the door, he was still struggling to get onto feet.  He looked unkempt.  The usually stiff creases in his shirt and pants were round.  His hair tousled to one side, like he had been running his hand through it nervously.  To anyone who did not know him, he would have looked like any guy after a long day at work.  Knowing how obsessively he maintained his appearance made these small changes painfully obvious signs of, I thought, legitimate distress.

I stepped back so he could come in.  He entered slowly, gawking around my apartment like he was a tourist in a museum.  I tried to ignore it.  At least my place was more or less in order.  Other than the dishes stacked up in the sink.  I did not want him to get the impression that I was a slob.

Somewhat distracted, he asked, “Can you get me some water?  I need to put this somewhere.”  He waved around the butt of his cigarette.

“Sure.”

I pulled a glass down from my cabinets and filled it from the tap.  He fixated on the old bean bag chair when I held the glass out for him.  With a nod, he took it silently and dropped the cigarette butt into it.  I sat down on the couch, and he followed suit, placing the glass on the floor under the arm rest closest to him.

I forced myself to ask, “So… what exactly do you watch?”

“Gorey horror films and murder mysteries.”

“Uh.”

He started laughing.  “Kidding.  I like sitcoms.  I don’t have to think while they’re on.  Sometimes they’re even funny.”

I was enjoying his sense of humor way too much.  It almost felt like we were talking as friends.  Friends that could never make eye contact without shifting the planes of reality into some dark abyss, but still.  I gave him the remote, and he flipped through channels.  Once he found something he approved of, he nestled further into his spot.  We watched bad tv and made low-key jokes about it amidst small talk for about an hour.  Eventually, he reached into his breast pocket to get a cigarette.  He grimaced and dropped his hand.

“You can smoke on the balcony if you need to.”

“You’re sure?”

“Honestly, it already smells like your cigarettes.”

He laughed silently.  “Sorry about that.  Smoke travels up.”  He got up and went out onto the balcony.  The recoil I usually felt at the end of our interactions was absent.  There was nothing to recoil from.  The last hour felt like an hour.  Nothing weird had happened.  Two guys watched tv like normal people.  Who would have thought something so mundane could be earth shattering?

My stomach grumbled.  Right.  I had been so focused on him, that eating had slipped my mind.  The idea of ordering a pizza for us popped into my head.  I banished it.  Just because he was showing some signs of respecting my boundaries did not mean it was time for me to take down all my walls and pretend the bad things never happened.

I laughed to myself.  It was so easy to imagine a scenario where instead of me trying to push him away, it was him trying to peal me off.  Charismatic people usually had that effect on me.  I so wanted to please them.  But maybe I was growing out of that.  At least I could call myself out on the inappropriate thoughts now.  I still wanted pizza though, even if just for myself.

I got up and made my way to the balcony.  He was leaning over the rail, staring upward into space.  His Crossroads burned quietly.  Mentally planning a gentle way to convince him to go back to his own apartment, I slid open the door and stepped out.  I stopped next to him and looked down.  At night, I could appreciate the view.  Window lights, traffic lights, taillights, fireflies, and distant starlight.  Speckles of brightness in a dark world.

“You feeling any better?” I asked.

He nodded.  “You hoping to get rid of me?”

I smiled awkwardly.  “I need to do me things.  Eat.  Shower.  Sleep.  You know.”

“Yeah.”  He sounded so disappointed.

The need to please flared up.  I looked over at him, hoping to convince him that this was not personal.   I just had to— Something yellow in his left hand caught my attention.  Without thinking, I grabbed his wrist and peeled his fingers away from what he was holding.  No.  <i>No no no</i>.

“Oh yeah, I saw a dandelion creeping out from a crack in the corner.  I guess you didn’t notice since you haven’t been out here much lately.  I know they’re weeds, but I kind of like—”

“NO!”  The whole neighborhood probably heard me.  In the lowlight, his pupils flashed larger than I had ever seen them go.  “Why did you—!  How could you—!  Why…”  My screaming tapered off into a whimper.

In a monotone voice, he said, “I don’t understand.”

“IT WAS CHARLIE’S BEST FLOWER!  He made shitty ones all summer and that was the first good one!”

“So, you like dandelion flowers too.”

I grabbed the flower from his hand and knelt to apologize to Charlie.  Charlie was gone.  I stared at the vacant spot, shaking.  After everything Charlie had survived.  The difficulty of growing himself in this unlikely spot.  Making it through the hot summer with no care by my hand.  Listening to every drop of negativity that poured of my mouth to get a sparce compliment here and there.  So many failures to finally make one good flower.  The entire point of his existence!  For nothing.  He would never have another chance.

He said, “I didn’t know you named it.”

I started sobbing.  I screamed through held breath on my knees.  My hands crushed Charlie’s last flower into my hair.  I was so lonely and disconnected that this weed had become my confidant.  My role model.  My best friend.  Losing him destroyed me, because I had nothing else.  And maybe his demise was also the first real outlet for the other hundred tons of stress I had been bearing without reprieve.

All the while, Switch stood over me, confused as fuck, as my inexplicable nightmare unfolded before him.  He kneeled next to me and placed a hand on my shoulder.  I tried to shake him off.  Elbowed his chest hard in the process.

He grabbed my arm hard, hissing, “You will not do that again!”  The shift in his tone scared me, and I froze.  He took the opportunity to speak.  “I.  Am.  Sorry.  I didn’t know.  However, I pulled Charlie out in one piece and tossed him over the balcony.  He’s still down there.  If we go look, we will probably find him.  We can put him back.”

The logic refused to go into my emotion-saturated brain.  I repeated every point, one by one, out loud, with him saying “yes” at the end of each statement.  Feeling like a complete idiot, I wiped at my eyes.  I cleared my throat and muttered, “Sorry.”

“For what?”

“Freaking out.  That counts as drama, doesn’t it?  The thing you came up here to stop thinking about?”

He clicked his tongue.  “If I can stop it with a few sentences, I’m not sure it counts.  Dealing with people unfortunately means dealing with emotions.”

“Ah.”

“I’m not going to say that wasn’t insane.  If you were Janice and Charlie was one of her prized orchids, I could have expected it.  This?  This makes no sense.”

His cold analysis made me incredibly self-conscious.  I put that aside.  “You said ‘we.’  <i>We</i> could go find Charlie.”

“Yes, I’m going to help.”

“Why?”

“Because I can see you’re upset.”

“You don’t care though.”

“It will be a problem for me if you are upset with me.  If I help, you will forgive me, right?”

“Yeah.”  I cleared my throat again.  “I guess, thanks for being honest about that.”

“And thank you for the honest warning about the possibility of going nuclear.  Are we going to go find Charlie or not?”

I exhaled roughly.  “Yeah.”  He pulled the lump of flower meat out of my hair.  He almost tossed it aside.  Instead, he held it out for me, and I let him drop it into my hand.  I left it on the counter before we went downstairs to look around in the dark for the rest of Charlie.  When we did not find him, I had another near breakdown.  Switch stood by, watching me sob quietly, until I decided to give up and go inside.  I looked again the next morning.  And again in the afternoon.  I never found Charlie.
