We stared out the cabin window.  I saw nothing.  Just solid white and swirling white fading into black.  We were in the middle of a blizzard, and it looked like we had two or three feet of fresh snow on the ground.  By the time the sun rose, perhaps I would be able to see the car.  For now, the rest of the world was gone.  The idea of dying here, alone with him, crept through me.

He cleared his throat.  “So, what do we do?”

“About what?”

“The snow.”

I blinked.  “Nothing.  Even with snow tires, we couldn’t drive in that.”

“But we have to leave today.”

“It’s not happening.”

I left the window to sit on the couch.  I was still tired.  Surely, since he was up, my obligation had been fulfilled.  I could grab the blanket and pillow and sleep the rest of the day away in the attic.  He kept standing at the window.  Recalibrating.  Maybe I should have done the same, but figuring out what to do next felt like a problem for later.

He joined me on the couch, staring straight ahead into the unlit fireplace.  “You understand what happens if we don’t get my car back on the road today, right?”

“No demo.”

“No promotion.  I want that promotion.”  The edge in his voice was unsettling.  “Get dressed and pack up your things.  I want you in the car in ten minutes.  We’re going to need the extra time.”

“No.”

“Do it, or I’ll leave you here.”

“You can’t drive in this.”

He finally looked at me.  “I will leave you here.”

“Go for it.”  There was no challenge in my voice.  Impossible threats are just noise.  I stood up and went to the bedroom to get the pillow and blanket.  By the time I had dragged them into the main room, he was gone.  I went upstairs and flopped onto the mattress.  Unfortunately, my curious anxiety got the better of me.  The attic space had a little window at either end.  One overlooked the front of the cabin where the car was parked.  I shoved the mattress over to that wall, bundled myself up in the blanket, and leaned against the window to watch whatever I would be able to see.

At first there was nothing.  Just the snowflake white noise, dancing around madly.  I started nodding off.  The occasional, muffled sound of him screaming a swear would refocus my attention for a moment, but otherwise, nothing changed.  In the monotony, I slipped into blissful sleep.  I was ripped out of it a few minutes later, when he grabbed me by the collar and pulled me to my feet.  His fingers were ice cold, and he shed clumps of snow onto everything.

“Get.  Dressed.”

“Okay.”

He dropped me and stormed back downstairs.  I looked at my limp duffle bag.  Nothing I had packed would resist a blizzard.  Drowsily, I debated the pros and cons of wearing triple layers.  They would keep me warm until he gave up, but it would also mean more than half of my clothes would become damp and unwearable.  The chance that he would order me to go out again later for some trite reason was high.  I settled on double layers for my pants and triple for my shirt.  My ski jacket would at least keep the shirts dry.  As I dug clothes out of the duffle bag, I discovered a pair of gloves I had stashed away just in case.  I felt like an idiot for not remembering them the night before.

Downstairs, he stood at the door, glowering.  His hands were tucked snugly under his armpits as he commanded, “Move faster.”

“Hold on.  You don’t have gloves?”

“No.”  I went to the kitchen and rummaged around in the drawers.  “Stop messing around!  Get over here!”

Luckily, I found what I was looking for quickly: a few dish rags.  I trotted to the door and presented them to him.  “Wrap your hands up.  You don’t want to get frost bite.”

He swiped the rags from my hand, grabbed me by the shoulder, and pulled me out with him.  I barely had a chance to grab my ski jacket.  The coat tree toppled over as the door closed.  I got one half of the jacket on as he dragged me through the path he had forged to the car.  Even though I knew the car was only a few feet from the door, the distance felt vast with the blizzard buffeting us.

He had to yell over the din of wind.  “I can’t get in!”

Of course not.  The car was buried under several feet of snow.  The best he had been able to do was walk a path around the perimeter of the thing and dig a little hole in the icy topcoat of the front window.  Why were we out here?  “You said your dad might have a shovel?!”

“In the shed!”

“Where’s the shed?!” He pointed into the darkness.  I saw nothing.  Great.  “You’ll have to take me to it!”

“You walk first!”

I shook my head.  He shoved me forward.  I followed the path in the direction he had pointed.  That brought me to the front of the car’s passenger side.  A 3-foot snowbank blocked the way forward.  I felt his eyes drilling into my back.  As I took my first, tentative step into the bank, I felt the cold wash through me.  While getting dressed, I had tucked my pants into my socks, so I was safe from ice for now.  I doubted the tuck would hold though.  For ten feet I struggled forward.  Suddenly, I plummeted down, buried in snow reaching up to my chest.  

“FUCK!”  I squirmed, digging frantically to get myself unstuck.  Carving away at the suffocating grip of ice until I could turn around.  He stood on the driveway above me without comment.  I craned my neck up to look at him.  “This is not going to help!  We need to wait this out!”

He picked up his foot and nudged my shoulder with it.  Silently telling me to keep going.  Hopelessly, I complied.  Darkness ahead of me.  We were too far from the light filtering out of the house.  Essentially swimming forward, I hurled powder back into the wind.  Pried up solid snow chunks.  Desperately coughed out the stray flakes that fluttered into my nose.

There was no input from him.  For all I knew, he was still on the driveway.  Or maybe inside, having a good laugh at my sorry state.  Panting from exertion.  Rasping in frigid air.  My throat burned.  The only ray of hope was the path itself.  I would not get lost out here.

I scraped into something hard.  After a quick stop to catch my breath, I reached out with both hands to touch the solid mass before me.  It seemed too long and flat to be a tree.  “I think I reached it!  Where’s the door?!”

Sudden pressure against my back as he leaned into me to check the wall for himself.  He spoke into my ear, “I’m not totally sure.  It should be facing the house.  Guess you’ll have to dig around until you find it.”

“Can you check to the left while I check to the right?”  He gave a disapproving hum.  “It’ll be faster.  You want to get the car working ASAP, right?”

“Fine.”

He waited until I had extended the path enough to be out of his way before stepping forward to do his part.  The more I dug through the snow, the more I questioned whether just unburying the car by hand would have been easier.  A tiny voice in my head warned that if we got the damned thing to roll even a foot, I would have a mile’s worth of digging and pushing ahead of me.  The shovel, if it existed, was necessary.

A gust of wind blasted my face as I reached the end of the shed.  I jumped back.  Just in case I had missed the door, I waved my hand along the wall as I walked back to the main path.  Nothing felt like a door.  I continued down his section with one arm out to stop me from running into him.  My legs bumped into the edge of a snowbank a few feet from where we started.  For a moment, it confused me.  Then I scowled.  Checking the wall revealed a handle.  I entered the shed.

With the door closed, the wind’s whining fell to a hushed moan.  My steps crunched the frost heaved ground as I tentatively ventured into absolute darkness.  Where was he?  “You could have told me you found the door.”

“I did.  You didn’t hear me.”  His voice came from behind, startling me.

“Is there a light in here?”

“No.  I think we’ll need to get the flashlight.  It’s in the kitchen.”

His matter-of-fact tone made me testy.  “Why didn’t you get it before?”

“I didn’t know you wanted to get into the shed.”

“You did before we—!“  I looked back at him even though there was nothing to see.  “You want me to get it.”

“I’m glad you offered.”

Needless to say, I made the trip back to the house.  Being in the warmth felt like a punishment, because I knew I would soon return to the cold.  The overturned coat tree looked up at me pathetically.  I set it up right before dodging little puddles of melting snow on my way to the kitchen.  I opened every drawer and cabinet before I finally stumbled on the fat, neon yellow flashlight.

I pushed the flat switch.  No light.  Batteries dead.  With a sigh, I picked through the rest of the drawer until I found a set of four D batteries.  The flashlight took two.  I popped the new ones in place and left the old ones on the counter.  This time, the flashlight came to life when I tested it.  Reluctantly, I left the cabin.

Back in the shed, I turned the flashlight on and panned around for him.  He was leaning up against an orange and red snowmobile.  My mental gears turned, imagining a potential Plan B and hoping that he had not yet considered it.  I kept searching, discovering a mostly empty tool wall, a coil of hose, an empty log rack, a child’s disk sled, and, finally, the plastic snow shovel.  I walked up to it and checked the connection between the shovel blade and the handle.  It felt sturdy enough.  Sweeping the light around the shed again, I looked for a second shovel.  There was only the one.

He appeared beside me.  “Well, you found it.  Let’s go.”  He grabbed the shovel and headed for the door.  A cloth weave brushed my skin as he took it.  He had wrapped the rags around his hands.  Good.  The last thing I needed to worry about was severing his frostbitten hands from his arms when they went necrotic.

I followed him back to the driveway.  Surprisingly, he cleared the snow off the car himself rather than ordering me to do it.  Maybe he thought I would damage his baby.  Meanwhile, I held the flashlight beam level, so he could see what he was doing.  Massive coils of snow peeled off the front window and hood.   There was still an inch or so covering the glass, but he left that.  He focused on getting enough of the bulk out of the way to open the driver’s door next.  That effort created a hole where I could view the dark gap between the car and the ground.  Last night’s compacted tire tracks were visible under the chassis.  He wrenched open the door, leaned in, rifled around, shut something, and then came out.

Giving me the hand scraper, he took the flashlight and turned it off.  “If you mess up my car…”  He left the threat there.  After tossing the flashlight towards the cabin door, he went to work on the back window.  I cleared the front window, rear view mirrors, and the driver’s side window, before he took the scraper from my hand and gave me the shovel.  “Do whatever needs to be done, so I can drive out of this.”

He went to work on scraping the back window clean.  I stood in place, dazed.  There was nothing I could do to make this possible.  Futilely, I stared into empty darkness.  Without my watch, I had no clue how long we had been out there, but my limbs felt like jelly.  I fetched the flashlight and paced our trampled path.  Maybe if I built a sort of a ramp to get on top of this mess and we got some momentum going… <i>maybe</i> we would be able to glid our way down to the main road.  It was sort of a plan.

I plowed enough space to turn the car around, pushing the excess snow towards the spot where I would construct the ramp.  The incline had started to take shape when he came up to me to ask what in the hell I was doing.  I explained my idea.  He seemed to be on board with it.  In any case, he helped stomp the snow in place.  Near the end, he got impatient with me, because I wanted to tamp down the first few yards of straight run at the ramp’s end too.  After a terse argument, he agreed to allow it, though he would not help.   The car had collected another inch of wet fluff, so he set about removing it.  The wind had died down by then, but the snow was relentless.

When all was said and done, I was proud of my ramp.  I had built numerous snow forts as a kid, but nothing like this.  My mom had always thought I would grow up to be an engineer.  In a sense, I guess I did do that.  Though, coding let me create abstract things rather than physical things.  Anyway, I had never made a ramp before, and I thought this one looked solid.  Admiring it was a nice break from thinking about why I had built it.

“You done?”

“Yeah, I think this is the best we’re going to get.”  Not having to scream over the wind was nice.

“Let’s do it then.”  He opened the driver’s side door.

“I’ll be back in a minute.  I just need to get my duffle bag and my toothbrush.”  He got in without acknowledging me.  I took that to mean “be quick,” so I rushed inside.  Continuing the rush up the stairs was not an option.  I lumbered up them, my calves screaming at me.  By the time I reached the attic, I was panting again.  When I dug my watch out of the bed, I checked the time.  9AM.  We must have been out there for hours setting up for this insane, hopeless scheme.  Honestly, I had no idea why I was concerned with getting my things together.  I guess I still had some shred of hope that the plan might work.

I saw lights come on outside the attic window.  They shifted away from me as he slowly turned the car around to get it aligned with the ramp.  The car gained speed as it climbed up.  All my aching muscles were forgotten.  He was leaving without me.
