Control is an illusion people create for themselves to feel safe.  Writing down when events will happen to plan for them: control.  Feeling smug in predicting how others will behave: control.  Making deals to perform one service in exchange for another: control.  It is the feeling that whatever comes next is within one’s power to shape.  The dangerous part about it is sometimes that feeling seems to be right.  Sometimes the planning, the predicting, and the negotiating leads to the expected outcome.  My life improved after he moved in below me, because I thought I had the situation under control.  We had agreements.  We had stated rules.  I was handling him.  Control became a safety blanket against the dark shadows of his chaos.  It was as comforting as it was useless.  Even when everything started to fall apart, I refused to believe that I was powerless to fix it.

I had a mid-morning meeting with Clara and Ryan in one of the conference rooms.  Dave got overloaded with requests for new customization features that our marketing team said prospective buyers would expect.  Implementing the safety features now fell entirely on my shoulders.  Clara, as the legal expert, grilled me and Ryan on what stupid things the user could do to hurt themselves and the limits of what we could prevent.  Basically, she needed to know what “don’t put a baby in the oven” stickers Alpine should have to keep the company from being sued.

To be honest though, it felt less like a business meeting and more like I was the third wheel in a conversation between sweethearts.  Clara and Ryan knew each other so well that Ryan was able to answer her questions with references to inside jokes.  I sat there awkwardly with no idea what was going on until a wayward question targeted me.  Clara always seemed disappointed in my answers.

The out-of-place feeling somehow got worse when Ryan excused himself to take a smoke break with Switch.  I thought Clara would take advantage of the time to ask software-specific questions.  Instead, she sat at our little, round meeting table in her smart, grey suit, better dressed than everyone in the office except Switch, taking notes.

Maybe it was on me to strike up conversation with her, but I opted not to.  Even though I had no interest in dating Clara, it is hard for me to look at a woman and avoid making a silent call on whether I have a chance.  A professional of her caliber was miles out of my league, and I sort of resented that.  I was also terrified of that resentment slipping out.  So, as she sipped at her Starbucks monstrosity, scribbling large, confident, looping letters in black pen, I stared down at my tightly clasped hands, pretending I was invisible.

I heard the pen cap snap into place.  She began, “So, what exactly is the deal with you and Ryan?”

“What do you mean?”

“I mean, what’s the deal with you two?”

I considered shrugging, but that might have been an insult to Clara’s intelligence.  The problem was I had no idea what she had picked up on and no intention of feeding her new information if I could help it.  I tried to give her a blank, innocent expression.  I probably looked guilty as hell.

Clara rolled her eyes and scooted her chair closer to mine.  In a quieter voice she said, “You know.  All that drama you two had with Tim that suddenly disappeared, the covert looks, the secret emails…”

“Who said we had secret emails?”

“Please.  I’ve watched you two go back and forth while sitting six feet from each other.  You wouldn’t do that if you were talking about anything work appropriate.”

My mouth opened and shut again.  I had not explained the situation with Switch to anyone.  Starting now seemed like a bad idea.  Especially if Ryan had not already clued Clara in.  It seemed like he shared most things with her, so he must have had a reason to hold this back.

She huffed.  “I won’t make a big thing out of it.  Though, if you guys are trying to keep this under wraps, maybe you should be a little more discreet.”

“Yeah…” I shifted uncomfortably.  “Uh, what exactly do you—um… know about the situation?”

“Nothing really, other than I’m glad that if Ryan really insists on keeping himself stuffed in the closet, at least someone’s in there with him.”

I blinked.  “Christ, you think I’m—” My voice was much too loud.  I dropped to a whisper.  “We’re not dating.  I’m not gay.  Why would you think that?”

Clara looked puzzled.  “Everybody thinks you are.  We thought you and Tim had a thing until he started flirting with Janice.”

“Why.”

“Because you two act different around one another, I don’t know.  Actually, I thought Ryan punched you because you had hooked up with him <i>and</i> Tim.  So, when Ryan found out about Tim—”

“No.  That is not what happened.  I’d be dating you before I got with either of them.”  I cringed the moment after I said that.  “I mean—that came out wrong.  I’m not saying there’s anything wrong with you.  It’s in terms of probability.  I just don’t think a guy like me has a chance in hell with a girl like you.  N-not that I’m saying I want that either.  I don’t even know if you’re single, and I—"  I buried my bright red face in my hands.  I had no idea what her expression was, and I was glad for it.  “Can you pretend I never said any of that?”

“So… you’re not asking me out for coffee?”

I looked up, confused.  Clara wore a shit-eating grin, holding back her laughter.  Thank god.  Not that I enjoyed her joking at my expense, but it was better than offending her.  I crossed my arms and looked to the side.  My cheeks would stop burning when that little spark of hope her teasing ignited in me fizzled out.

“I’ll forget you said it.  If you and Ryan aren’t dating though, then what are the emails about?”

“It’s like this…” Lying on the spot is not my forte.  I froze as I tried to figure out a half decent one.  Clara sipped loudly from her coffee to remind me that she was waiting.  I whispered, “I don’t get along with him.”

“Who, Ryan?”

“No.  Not him.”

She swirled the straw in her drink.  When I did not clarify, she said, “You mean Tim?”

“Yeah.”

Clara shifted her position and smoothed down her skirt.  As gently as she could, she said, “So, I’ve noticed that you avoid saying Tim’s name.”  I clenched my fists and hunched my shoulders.  Clara sat back, whispering, “Dear God, are you afraid of him?”

“I don’t want to talk about it.”

“Why would you be scared of him?  He wouldn’t hurt a fly.”

I stared at the condensation dripping off her plastic coffee cup.

“Have you considered seeing someone about that?”

“I don’t.  Want.  To talk about it.”

“Yeah, okay.”  She glanced out the conference room door into the sea of cubicles.  “Where do the emails with Ryan fit in?”

I should have stopped her there.  Said one more time that I was not going to talk about it.  This was neither the time nor place nor person with whom to explain our arrangement.  “Ryan tries to keep us apart.  He tells me when it’s safe to come to work on weekends.  You know.  When he’s busy.”  I swallowed.  “I mean, not when Ryan is busy, when <I>HE</I> is busy.”

She looked at me like I was insane.

“Ryan’s into <i>him</i>, not me.  Ryan knows where <i>he’ll</i> be.”

“What?  No way.  Tim’s too fluffy to be Ryan’s type.”

I knew better than to argue for the truth about Switch.  “Ryan sleeps at his place most weekends.”

“But I thought Tim had a thing with Janice.”

“Apparently, he bragged to Ryan about sleeping with someone else in the office.  Maybe it’s her.”

“You’re kidding.  Tim’s with both of them?  That doesn’t sound like him at all.  And why would Ryan put up with that?”

I resented the fact that she thought Switch was some pure angel, while she could easily believe I was the cheating type.  Before I could brush the insult aside and clarify that I was unsure about Janice and Switch, I smelled smoke.  Cherries and s’mores.  I looked away from Clara.  The tail end of some story Switch was telling drifted into the room.  As they came into view, Ryan muttered something sarcastic in response.  They laughed as they parted.  Switch’s predator eyes locked onto my guilty ones for a moment before he returned to his desk.   My gaze had glued to the floor by the time Ryan retook his seat across from Clara.

After that meeting, work was not happening.  I took the rest of the day off.  Bad tv helped me lose time until sunset.  By then, I had regained some sense of equilibrium.  Chinese takeout was sounding pretty good, and I was planning on ordering more than I could eat.  Leftovers make the best lunches.  And dinners.  I would just have to grab a shirt to go with my ratty pajama bottoms that almost passed as sweatpants.

Picking through the pile of clean laundry I kept shoved in a corner across from my bed was unfruitful.  All I had left was a button up and some undershirts.  I stared at the dirty pile and frowned.  I could do better than that.  When I had moved in, I tossed my duffle bag between the couch and the half wall that marked the end of the kitchen.  There was a slim chance I had left some clothes in it.

I fished the bag out and unzipped the main pocket.  Empty.  The side pocket was also empty.  On a whim, I opened the little pouch for toiletries, expecting to find nothing since I never used it.  There was a crumpled up black tee.  Curious, I flattened it out to check the design.  The jagged text read “Lost Warrior.”

I shook my head with a dumbfounded smile.  It was art class merchandise I had made for my high school best friend’s band.  Technically, it was supposed to be “our” band, but I was a terrible musician and a worse singer.  We had agreed to fire me to get someone decent in my place.  I thought I had gotten rid of the shirt after he died in a drunken car crash.  Back then, I wanted to erase everything that reminded me of him.  Now, the memory was more sweet than bitter.

I slipped the shirt over my head and smoothed it down my torso.  It was a little tight, but it still fit.  Nothing like a hint of nostalgia to make takeout taste better.  I was about to leave when I heard a knock at the door.  My heart sank.  Why tonight?  I remembered catching Switch’s eyes at the office.  I slumped to the door.  After engaging the door chain, I cracked it open.

“We need to talk.  Now.”
Immediately, I perked up.  “Ryan?”

“NOW.”

All the gears in my brain spun wildly in panic.  I shakily unhooked the chain, and Ryan pushed his way into the apartment.  He slammed the door and stared menacingly up at me.  “Why did you lie to me?”

“What?  About what?”

“You promised to keep your trap shut about me and Tim.”

Oh, shit.  “Wait, you and Clara are friends, aren’t you?”

Ryan stepped towards me.  “What does that have to do with anything!?”

I started back peddling.  “I mean… I thought—”

“I don’t care what you thought.  You said you would keep quiet and then you start blabbing everything to her.  What do you have to say for yourself?”

I should have said sorry.  I should have begged for forgiveness.  I got defensive instead.  “She’s your friend!  Why is it a problem?”

“Because that bitch can’t keep a secret, and her family knows my family.  My parents don’t need to hear about the shit I do in private!”

“Clara already knew you were gay.”

Ryan shoved me the last few inches into the back wall.  He stuck an accusing finger in my face.  “I’m not gay.  I never said I was.”

“So, what, you two <i>aren’t</i> fucking when you sleep at his place?”

Ryan pulled me forward by the collar of my shirt.  His dark eyes were seething.  The fight in me died.  I squeezed my eyes shut and cowered, knowing what would come next.  But nothing came except Ryan’s harsh breathing.  He let go of me and turned around.  “I swear, John, it’s like you <i>want</i> me to punch you!”

Bit by bit, I crumpled onto the floor.  Seeing him be the bigger man made me realize what a prick I had been.  “Sorry.”  Ryan glared down at me.  “I mean it.  You’re right.  I screwed up.  But I honestly thought Clara didn’t count.  Especially not after she told me she thought <i>we</i> were dating.”

“Why in the hell would she think that?”

“She watched us emailing one another.”

“Why does she always have to be such a snoop!”  Ryan hopped onto the half wall and buried his face in his hands, mumbling something unintelligible, but clearly unflattering, about Clara.

I took that time to carefully craft the correct words.  “Ryan, I’m not trying to get myself off the hook here, but she did already think you were gay.  If she hadn’t spilled the beans before, I doubt she will now.”

In a deadpan tone, Ryan said, “That’s comforting.”  He cracked his knuckles.  “And what about the other lie?”

“What other lie?”

“Really?  You’re going to make me say it?”

I threw my hands up in utter bewilderment.

“Do you remember our deal?  The whole point of those emails?”

“Yeah, I’ve been reading your emails and telling you whatever I know about what he’s doing.”

“The point was to help you stay away from him, remember?”

I shook my head.  “It has been helping.  What are you—?”  The meat of his implied accusation hit me.  “So, I’m a liar because I carpooled with him when I had a flat tire?  What else was I going to do?  I couldn’t be late for that meeting.”

“Tim told me about it the day it happened.  You didn’t say a word until three days later when I wanted to know what was wrong with him.”

“I got busy fixing my car and then it… It slipped my mind.”

“You carpooled with the dude who makes you go comatose, and it slipped your mind.”

“He’s backed off a lot lately.  And I think you deserve a lot of credit for that.  It’s given me a chance to think about something other than him all the time.  So yeah, just once, it slipped my mind.”

“Oh, I see.  So, his change in behavior has nothing to do with that deal you two made?”

I went dead silent.

“Yeah, Tim told me about that too.”

I cleared my throat, finally seeing the trench I had fallen into.  There had to be a way out.  If I did not dig in any deeper, I could get out of that hole.

Ryan slid off the half wall and walked around it to the couch.  For a moment, he kneeled.  Then, he walked back into the kitchen and sat on the floor in front of me.  “I saw this on my way in.”  He placed a glass filled with grey-tinted dingey water in front of me.  Switch’s waterlogged cigarette had sunk to the bottom.

“He-said-he-couldn’t-be-alone-and-you-were-busy.”

“I know.  He already told me.  Though, stupid me, since I never got a confirmation from you, I thought he was lying.  Afterall, why would you let him into your apartment.  You’re terrified of him.  Right?  That’s the whole reason I’ve been doing this with you.  RIGHT?!”

“Yes!  And he still scares me, but I’m trying to get a handle on him, so you—”

“What the hell is this game you two are playing?!”

“I DON’T KNOW!”  I covered my face with my hands, and repeated in a strangled whisper, “I don’t know.”

I heard the clicks of Ryan bringing his lighter to life.  The snap as he closed it again.  Some deep, ignorant, selfish part of me wanted to ask him not to smoke in my apartment.  Having a thought like that in a time like this made me feel even worse.  Ryan exhaled towards the ceiling.  It looked like he was considering something.  Weighing unknown options.  He stood up and said, “I’m done.”

“With what?”

Ryan gave me a dirty look, and I wilted.  “With helping you.”

Panic brought me back to my feet.  “No, Ryan, please.  I still need you to—”

“No.  You don’t.  You lie more than he does, and I’m done with it.”

“Are you joking?  Just because I made some mistakes and forgot to tell you some things doesn’t mean I was lying!”

“I don’t have the time or patience to fix both of you, and the fact of the matter is, I like Tim a hell of a lot better than I like you.”

“Well, sorry I’m not fucking you!”

Ryan slammed his fist on the half wall, crushing his cigarette.  When he picked his hand up again, he tightly flexed it open and closed.  Dried tobacco and ash crumbled off his palm onto the floor.  “Tim is pleasant.  You are miserable.  Tim does what I ask.  You don’t.  Tim knows when he’s being selfish.  You haven’t got the slightest clue.  Who would you stand by in my position?”

I wrapped my fingers around the back of my neck.  It was not supposed to be like this.  I was supposed to have fixed things with Switch and then told Ryan he would not need to help me anymore.  That was what had I wanted.  I swallowed hard.  “Probably not me.”

“I’m glad we’re on the same page about that.”  Ryan dropped the remains of his crumpled cigarette into the water glass.  He reached for the pack in his pants pocket to get another.  “Sounds like you’re getting the situation under control without me anyway.”

I desperately wanted to argue to that sentiment.  Tell him what my intentions had been.  But there was no point.  All I could do now was try not to screw things up further.  “I’m trying.”

Ryan nodded absentmindedly.  “Just so it’s on the table, if you honestly clam up about me and Tim now, we’re not going to have any problems at work.  I know how to be professional.”

“I know.”

“But if you don’t…” Ryan left the threat open-ended as he walked to the door and opened it.  He took a step through then looked back.  “John, you should seriously get some help.  Our health insurance covers therapy.  I checked.”

“It hasn’t ever helped.”

“I’m sorry.  That sucks.”  Ryan closed the door.

I looked around my apartment.  It felt foreign.  The space emptier and more distant than it should have been.  I grabbed the water glass with the two cigarettes and poured the miasma down the drain.
