I dashed back downstairs, whimpering “No, no, no, no!”  I threw open the door, stepped onto the slick snow, and crashed to the ground.  I crawled forward as I got up, ignoring my skinned knees, still chanting “no.”  The car was nowhere in sight, but maybe that was just because it was dark.  I had to believe that was the case.  I ran up the snow ramp.  Nothing but tire tracks and a trough where the car had plowed through.  I felt the tears stinging at my eyes, freezing in place.  Then I heard the muffled swearing and slowed.

In a daze, I trotted along the tracks until I heard the car engine revenging.  I saw taillights peeping up through the snow.  The car looked like a mole scurrying into its tunnel.  He repeatedly hit the accelerator, spinning the car’s wheels impotently.  I walked back to the cabin and tossed my duffle bag inside.  It knocked over the coat tree.

I retrieved the flashlight and then the shovel.  I slogged back to the car and started digging a trench to get him out.  When he managed to open the door, I stumbled back, using the shovel as a crutch.

He stepped out of the car and got right in my face.  “Give me the shovel.”

“You’re joking.”

“No.”

“You’re buried.”

“I already dug the car out once.”

“The car was on solid ground then!  It’s swimming.”

“SHOVEL.  NOW.”  I relinquished it.  He had barely turned around before he started hurling heavy chunks of snow back at me.  Dodging to the side, I limply held the flashlight in his general direction.  I doubt the light helped any.  He dug into snow without rhyme or reason, swearing between each load.  

By the time he finally threw the shovel aside with a roar of powerless rage, the snowbank was pitted like a sponge.  Almost none of the car’s cream color was visible.  His ragged pants of frigid air gave to a coughing fit that shook his form.  I turned off the flashlight, so I would not have to watch.

When his breathing slowed to a desperate hissing, I said, “I’m going back to the cabin.  Do you want the flashlight?”  He said nothing, but the harsh breathing abruptly stopped.  Maybe he had forgotten I was standing there, and my words reminded him of his audience.  I timidly reached towards him to place the flashlight on the ground by his feet before I made my way back inside alone.

It took an hour for him to finally join me.  I spent that time sitting at the kitchen’s breakfast bar, staring at the back wall as I nervously fidgeted with a cup of expired instant coffee.  There is a good chance I never drank any of the chunky, foul-smelling mud, but the heat felt good on my hands.  He opened the door and let it close roughly.  Either he slammed it or the wind had picked up again.  My gaze remained fixed on my mug, so I had no way to tell.  A soggy clunking as his shoes dropped onto the floor.  Without them, he walked silently.  I could not track his movements.  It startled me when his hand snaked between my hands to snatch the mug.

He said, “That’s mine.”

After dragging a bar stool to the other side of the counter, he sat down where he could stare directly at me.  He took a long drink of bad, lukewarm coffee.  His lips curled back in honest disgust as he put the mug down.

The thought crossed my mind to make a joke about needing more cream and sugar.  “I could have made you a fresh cup.  It still would have been shit, but at least it would have been fresh, warm shit.”

“I think the way you would describe it is: ‘it was the principle of the thing.’“  His tone was flat but smooth.  No traces of the rage from earlier.

“I don’t get it.”

He tapped on the mug’s rim.  “This.  This is <i>mine</i>.  It’s not your place to use it.”

“They all looked the same to me.  Sorry.”

He gulped down the rest of the coffee and gagged before flipping the mug upside down.  There was a faded-black spiral scribbled there.  It looked like sharpie marker.  He traced around the jagged line from the outer rim to the center.  As he did, a trail of dark fluid seeped out from under the cup.  Neither of us did anything to stop it.

“I don’t remember doing this, but my dad says it was me.  I considered adding a little flair to the rest of the set as a kid, but he probably would have beat me with them until they shattered.  By the time I was big enough to fend him off, I had found far better ways to punish him.”

I swallowed and leaned back.

He turned the mug right side up again, setting it in the inky dribble.  “You still don’t want to listen?  Fine.”  He surveyed the cabin as if looking for something.  “We’ve got to pass the time somehow though.  Want to have sex?”

“Why in the f—?”  I rasped out a sigh.  He was trying to get my goat.  “You’re not winning points by screwing with my head.”

“I’m serious.” Toneless.

“No.”

“Oh, come on, it’s not a big deal.  What’s a hand job between friends?”  I stood up.  As calm as he had sounded, clearly the anger was still boiling under the surface.  His next his words spat out like fire.  “Would you get over yourself?  If I had Ryan here and the offer was for both of us, you’d say yes in a heartbeat!  Don’t try to deny it.”

“You are so full of—"

“Was that the mistake I made here?  That I should have gotten that boring waste of breath on this trip too?  I bet you’d listen to me if he told you to do it.  You’d do anything to make him like you again.  It’s pathetic how gay for him you are.”

“For Christ sakes, I’m not gay.”

“Yeah, you and Ryan both.  There’s <i>no way</i> you would ever suck his dick, just like he’s <i>definitely</i> never let me—”

I slammed my fist on the table, and he finally shut up.  “I.  Am not.  In love with Ryan.  Got it?”  He nodded, and I eased back.  My brain slowly registered the pain throbbing through my right hand.  I automatically lifted my left hand to massage my right.  It did little good with the bandage limiting my left’s range of motion.

The tapping started.  “So, if you’re not in love with him, why did you cry when he broke up with you?”  He held up a finger, signaling for me to wait.  “I heard you that night, so please don’t deny it.  You know I hate it when you lie.”  His hand dropped, and he donned his most solicitous expression.

I shook my head and staggered away from the kitchen.  The staircase.  I had to get up to the attic.  My gait was unsteady, so my foot plunged heavily onto the bottom stair.  It was so much further away from me than I had expected it to be.  Everything felt so much larger but so much more constricting.  I grabbed the railing and held on for dear life.

The groan of metal on laminate tile as he scootched the stool back to stand up.  “We can talk elsewhere if you like.”  He went to the sink and ran it for a few moments before approaching the pathetic, gasping flesh heap otherwise known as me.

“Would you just leave me alone?”

“No.”  He stepped over me and settled down on the staircase.  Staring down at me like a vulture.  “Don’t want to have our conversation?  Fine.  Don’t want to fuck?  Fine.  But I expect you to entertain me.  You owe me that much.”

The authoritative edge to his voice drained my last bit of resistance.  I felt sick.  I felt exhausted.  I felt numb.  All I wanted to do was to make him stop.  I cleared my throat and asked, “What do you want to talk about?”

He placed a glass in my hands and commanded, “Drink.  You sound like you swallowed sandpaper.”  I did as he asked, trying not to wonder why the “glass” had a handle.  There was no horror left in me to boggle over his doublethink to claim the mug as his only to then force me to use it.  I pulled myself into sitting position and glanced up at him.  His sharp eyes looked dull to me.  Absent.  Like cattle.  Maybe I was seeing the reflection of my own eyes in his.

“Good.  Now answer my question about Ryan.”

I shrugged.  “Because I wanted him to be my friend, and it finally dawned on me that he never wanted that.  I was just dead weight he carried along to keep the peace.”

“And?  There are billions of people on the planet.  What was so important about Ryan?”

I had the impulse to argue for Ryan’s merits.  Explain how few people I had met that could match his loyalty and patience.  Insist that he could see deep into the rest of us and gaze on our faults without judgement.  Dear god, how hollow that would have been.

The mercenary part of my brain had long since dismembered every piece of Ryan that held value.  In its place, I had erected a scare crow from every trivial flaw I saw or imagined in him.  Anything to keep the sting of rejection at bay.  Trying to defend the real deal now would have come off as half-hearted at best and scathingly disingenuous at worst.

“It’s not about Ryan anymore.”

“Then what’s it about?”

“He made it so clear to me.”  I rubbed at my face with my hands.  I did not want to tell him this, but I was so tired of carrying it all in silence.  He knew so much about the hell I had been living, that he could understand it.  There was no stopping the words from dribbling out.  “He laid it on the table so logically.  Asked me who I would choose in his place.  You or me.  And if I had to, I would have picked you.”

His pupils flared, but it meant nothing to me.  Just a flash of darkness against his milky eyes. 

“It doesn’t matter that I want to be a better person.  It doesn’t matter that I’m trying.  From the outside, I’m demonstrably inferior to you.  Everyone will pick your soulless, empty charade over my well-intentioned mistakes.  Intensions mean nothing.”

He gave that same raucous laughter I had heard at breakfast in the hotel the morning before.  With a contemptuous smile, he cut it short to say, “You’re a little off.  Sure, real intensions don’t matter.  Perceived ones do though.  It’s about what they <i>think</i>.  They think I adore them.  They think you hate them.  Of course they all love me.  They’re fucking simple.”  He pulled out a cigarette and placed it between his lips without lighting it.  His grin stretched for miles as he lulled his Crossroads around in his mouth.  “We’re the only ones who care about reality.”

“All you care about is distorting reality.”

Through half-lidded eyes, he mumbled, “This is how we’re supposed to talk.  You and me.  <i>Real us</i>.”

Barely a whisper: “I hate you.”

He cackled quietly.  “Say it like you mean it or shut up.”

I want to say that I found my fight again in that challenge.  That I screamed how despicable he was, even if that would have just made him laugh again.  I want to pretend that I got to my feet and punched him the way Ryan punched me.  There must be some reality where I was capable of that.  Instead of words or actions, it was quiet, useless tears that came tumbling out of me.
