“America, the land of opportunity.  In this great nation, anyone can pull themselves up by their bootstraps and climb to the top of the ladder.  And yet, the majority small businesses fail within a year of establishment.   Why?  Do most would-be business owners somehow have the ingenuity and initiative to start driving down the road to entrepreneurship only to find they lack the grit to follow through?  Of course not!  As any well-established business knows—”

This was his third run through of his part of the presentation.  Before the recitations began, he had sat on the stairs above me for hours.  Smoking through a pack of cigarettes until a veneer of nicotine ash covered my side.  Every time he finished a Crossroads, I thought he would extinguish the burning edge on my skin.  Every time, he snuffed them out on the staircase, grinding the cigarette into a crinkled nub.  Then, he dropped the useless husk onto my shirt.  Its smoldering heat threatened to ignite the damp cloth but never managed to do so.

His final move was to pick up the nubs, drop them into the empty pack box, reseal it, and balance it on my skull.  After that, he stepped over me, and the melodic drone began.  Meanwhile, I laid there like a corpse.  Afraid that, if I moved, the pack would clatter onto the floor and bring his attention back to me.

But fear has a limited lifespan.  At some point, the body accepts it as a baseline state of existence.  Basically, I was bored with the monotony of it.  So, I cautiously took the cardboard box and moved it to the stair.  I stiffly pushed myself up on my good hand with gritted teeth.  My other hand went straight for my sore neck.  A twinge of pain.  I looked at the bandage around my palm.  It was soggy and smelled musty.  My fingertips had wrinkled from holding a tight fist on the wet gauze for so long.  A trickling of oxidized red stained my hand.  First order of business: change the gauze before I died of blood poisoning.

Thankfully, I still had gauze left over from the roll he bought at the gas station.  I had shoved it into the pockets of my jeans.  Unfortunately, I was not wearing that pair.  I tiptoed upstairs, agonizing over every brief creak of floorboard.  When I reached the upper landing, the memory of my duffle bag laying by the overturned coat tree came to me.  I suppressed a sob as I slunk back down the staircase.  From the bottom stair, the innocent floor looked menacing.  The dozen or so steps to cross it would put me directly in his line of sight.

“These kinds of growing pains can easily cripple any business, despite the marketability and profitability of its goods and services.  Even a large corporation with experience in navigating these scenarios can find itself in peril during unexpected economic downturns if measures are not taken to ensure there are sufficient liquid assets to maintain operations.  Which begs the question: how much is enough?  And how sure are you of your—?”

I was three steps into the room when he paused.  Instinctively, I froze like a rabbit.  As if that would somehow hide me from him.  A silent laugh rumbled through his form.  Then, he stilled, as if he were a statue that had come to life only long enough to mock me.

I convinced my legs to lift and swing forward with the effort and fluidity of a drunken baby taking his first steps.  When I reached my duffle bag, I half-kneeled, half-collapsed onto the floor.  He resumed his monologue while I dug around in the bag.  I hated what he was signaling to me.  He would not be practicing unless he was still sure that, somehow, we were going to make it to the conference.  When would he give up?  What was it going to take for him to accept that we were trapped here?

I found the jeans, and the gauze was in them.  The roll of stretchy, mesh felt so <i>real</i> in my hands.  As though, despite knowing it would be there, I had not expected to find it.   It was an unwelcome realization that my faith in even the basic laws of physics was gone.  I lurched to my feet and stumbled across the floor to the bathroom.

As I closed the door, he emphasized, “Alpine provides novel solutions to common business bottlenecks in growth and management, thereby increasing productivity, publicity, and profit margins.”  Right.  That was how that sentence ended.

Sealed in the small room, I could only hear the rise and fall of his tone.  I flipped down the lid of the toilet and sat on it while I worked at the knot holding bandage in place.  My fingers never got a good grip on the wet fabric.  I huffed at it and looked at the left side of the counter.  My toothpaste and toothbrush were not going to help me.  Nor was my electric razor, which was still in the duffle bag.  The black leather bag with his shaving kit sat to the right of the sink.  No.

I went back to working at the knot with my teeth.  It tasted like withering rot swimming in expired antiseptic.  I gagged.  I stared at the existential crisis of my own making.  Reluctantly, I glanced at the shaving kit again.  Fine.

I opened the bag with the tips of my fingernails.  There was a straight razor neatly folded at the top of the bag.  I dropped it the first time I tried to pick it up.  Silly me, thinking I could hold the thing without touching it.  The second time, I gripped the black lacquered handle.  The blade swung out smoothly.  In the hands of a barber, it was probably an instrument of beauty and finesse.  In my hands, it was a dull machete.  Still, I got the knot to unravel.  The old gauze peeled off into a crumpled pile next to my toothbrush.  I rinsed the blade and wiped it on my pants before refolding it and returning it to its proper place.  Finally, I dared to look at the cuts on my hand.

The big one stretched diagonally from my pointer finger to the base of my palm.  Technically, it was two cuts since there was a stretch of unbroken skin in the very center of it.  They had come from the same fragment of glass though, so I thought of it as one wound.  The other half dozen small cuts had sealed into ugly, sunken scabs.  The big one gaped too widely to come together.  Ghostly white flaps of dead skin laid limply over the raw, sickly pink and brown of the lesion. 

I probably should have gotten stitches for it the night it happened.  All I could do now was rinse it off in warm water and pat it dry with a towel while swearing under my breath.  I used the rest of the gauze to rebandage the wound.  It was overkill, but the extra padding would prevent me from making a death grip fist around it again.

A thought came to me.  I pushed against the door with my good hand.  Thick, solid, and heavy.

As if he could read my mind, his muffed voice called from the other side.  “Are you all right in there?  I hope you’re not planning on locking yourself in again.”  I reached for the lock.  My fingers caressed the latch bolt.   “I’m about to make us some food.  I imagine you must be hungry too after all the work we put in this morning.  Don’t be in there too long.”  The sounds of his steps crossing the length of the cabin.  My shoulders drooped.  I opened the door.

He was in the kitchen, pulling down, appraising, looking disappointed, and replacing one can after another from the upper cabinets.  I sloshed onto one of the stools.  I laid my limp arms on the counter and buried my head in them.

“I’m glad you changed the bandage without me having to make you do it this time.  It’s not good to let something like that fester.”

“Like dropping burning ash on me was <i>good for me</i>.”

Without missing a beat, he replied, “It didn’t seem to harm you any.”  He huffed loudly.  “You know, as much as my dad rode my, pardon my language, <i>goddamn ass</i> about taking care of this place, it’s not like he did a good job himself.  Everything is two or even three years expired!  It’s not like Juniper Grove has a booming restaurant scene.”  The dense clunk of cans thumping onto the counter in front of me.  “I suppose neither of us are strangers to making do though.”  The woosh of wooden wheels as a drawer opened.  The tinny jingle of rifling through silverware.  “How did I do, by the way?”

I shrugged.

“I mean with my part of the presentation.”

Another shrug.

“Come now, be honest.  I can take constructive criticism.”

I muttered, “Your delivery is as cheesy and grating as the writing.”

I imagined him thumping the wooden handle of a heavy butcher’s knife onto the counter.  Reminding me about our deal through gritted teeth.  Civility given for civility granted.  The animalistic lows he could reach if he discarded the societal inhibitions he conformed to only so long as they granted him what he wanted.

Instead, he cackled.  “I’ve got to make the tone match, don’t you think?”

“What?”

“<i>What</i> what?”

I picked my head up enough to see the cans of beans, spoons, and can opener laid out before me.  “Didn’t you…  You wrote the pitch, right?”

“Me?  Heavens no!  As if I would write such trash.”  The razor wheel of the can opener dug into the first can, grinding through the metal.  “I got the text from Clara.  It’s my understanding that she got it directly from Boss.  He told her to make sure that we weren’t making any claims that would get us into hot water.  Best I can tell, Boss must have plagiarized the sleezy used-car salesmen’s bible himself.”  The can lid popped up.  He released the can opener, leaving it hanging on the edge.  The tapping started.  “I bet you think it was my idea for us to do the pitch together too.”

“Why in the hell would Boss have chosen me otherwise?”

“Well, who else would he have picked for the technical half of the presentation?”  His smile twitched at the edges.  We both knew who the obvious choice was.  “Oh, you mean Dave?  Well, you see, Dave would be an excellent choice except for one thing: He doesn’t, and I quote, ‘represent the business.’  Maybe it’s because he’s too old at 40-something.  That's what Boss said anyway…

“Or maybe it’s because Dave is black, and Boss is just a <i>teensy</i> bit racist.”  He rocked back on his heels as if deep in thought.  “That or Boss thinks big business is racist.  Either way, he thought that putting Dave in the public sphere was bad for <i>company image</i>.  Lucky us.”  The lights flickered then.  Soon after, they dimed out of existence.  Only the glow from the dying fire across the cabin remained.  The tapping stopped.  “Great.  Go toss more wood on the fire, would you?”

An excuse to move away from him and towards the light?  It was easy to comply.  By the fireplace, there was a small, metal log rack that I had paid little attention to previously.  He had taken care of the fire since we arrived.  I had decided not to deal with it no matter how cold I got.  Stoking the fire was a host duty best not infringed upon.  A different kind of chill passed through me as I picked up the last log and gingerly placed it on the grate.

Behind me, he moved the armchair from the reading nook to the center of the room.  Next, he rolled the old rug back towards the bookcases, revealing a trap door.  A myriad of horrifying, half-formed visions of some secret prison or torture chamber filled my head.  I stammered, “W-what’s that?”

With a knowing glance, he flicked on the chunky flashlight.  It lit up his face, kids-telling-ghost-stories style.  He redirected the light to the staircase under the trapdoor and descended.  Anxiously, I looked to the log I had placed on the fire.  The flames tasted it but were unwilling to engulf it.  To provide the light I desperately wanted.  With small, lurching steps, I made my way towards the bookshelves.

From the trapdoor, I saw his flashlight pan over a black, boxy machine with yellow plastic accents.  When the light reached a red gas canister sitting on a little table, I guessed that the machine was a generator.  Okay.  The lights had gone out because the gas had run out.  Add more gas, and the light would return.
As I tried to convince myself of that certainty, I lowered myself to the ground.  I listed to the side and jerkily corrected.  In the dark, exhaustion called me to sleep.  His hand appeared in the cone of light to grab the gas can.  His fingers twined around the handle then froze.  Though his face was out of sight, I was sure he was wearing that blank expression of recalibration.

“Is…” I swallowed hoarsely.  “Is something wrong?”

The light panned the room again.  There was another canister shoved into the far corner.  The light swayed to the side as he picked it up.  So he could see what he was doing, he placed the flashlight on the table by the first canister angled at the generator.  He untwisted the cap.  Poured in the gas.  Spun the cap back down.  Flipped some switch or pressed some button.  A solid yank on a pull cord to restart the machine.  The generator murmured for a moment then settled into a nearly inaudible hum.

He turned around.  A scrape of plastic on wood as he grabbed the flashlight from the table.  The light blinded me as he reached the stairs.   I scrambled to my feet and dodged aside just in time for him to reach the top step.  A flash of red in the corner of my eye told me that he had also taken the gas canister from the table.

Finally, I found enough strength in my voice to firmly ask, “What went wrong?”

He shoved the canister in my face, and I stumbled back.  He released the handle.  The canister fell to the floor with a hollow clatter.  In a matter-of-fact monotone, he said, “We’re out of gas.”

The lights flickered back to life.
