The next morning, I still felt horrible.  I slept through an hour’s worth of sleep-button alarm delays.  If coffee had perfumed my apartment, maybe that would have enticed me to get up and be human.  However, the concept of “tomorrow” had not meant anything last night.  The coffee machine never got set up to run.  The only thing my apartment smelled like was stale air.

Dwelling on how things had been last night was fruitless though.  It was morning now.  I had to make a choice between going to work or calling in sick.  My paid time off was running short.  I rolled out of bed onto the floor like a soggy burrito.  I stared at the pile of dirty clothes.  Nope.  Fairies had not magically done my laundry during the night.

With a sigh, I wriggled out of my blanket and glanced down at what I was wearing.  The clothes I had put on for his… thinking the phrase <i>dinner party</i> made my stomach lurch and my mouth go dry.  My work clothes were still on the bathroom floor.  l was 90% sure I had not vomited on them last night.  They would do.

I crawled towards the bathroom until some dim vestige of dignity jeered, <i>could you be more pathetic?</i>  Fine.  Groggily, I rose to my feet, dragging my shoulder up the wall for balance.  <i>Because yes, this looks so much less pathetic.
</i>
Once I had the crumpled mass of cloth in hand, I staggered to the coffee machine.  Stuff a filter in place.  Dump an unmeasured heap of grounds on top.  Start it.  With the promise of relief on the way, I put on my slacks, my undershirt, and the button down.  When I reached the central button, the image of my car sitting by itself in the work parking lot knocked on my consciousness.  I squelched a near sob with the words, “I’m not riding with him.  Not again.”

The thought of a taxi was dismissed as soon as I considered it.  I could barely deal with myself.  Like hell would I inflict my sorry state on someone else.  I checked the time.  Walking was still a viable option if I left now.  I gave the coffee brewer a desperate, longing stare.  With my head down, I shut it off.  It sputtered in complaint as the brewing light dimmed.  I drank the two drops of boiling-hot filth directly from the pot and grabbed my messenger bag on the way out the door.

Walking out into the cool morning and turning away from the parking lot felt wrong.  I was supposed to pull out my keys.  I was supposed to analyze where his car was relative to mine.  I was supposed to steel myself against whatever horrors he would have ready for me today.  In place of the muffled grumble of my car’s engine, I heard birds singing.  Logically, I know that every vehicle on the road has at least one individual in it.  However, the confines of the driver seat always made me feel like I was the only person on earth.  Out on the sidewalk, I felt different.

Weaving around the gal hurrying to her favorite cafe for her morning java.  Dodging aside, as a guy, laughing, lost in conversation with someone close, nearly collided with me.  Saying “Excuse me” as I sidestepped around the slowest travelers.  There was a whole community of people around me.  A community that I technically belonged to.

I spent so much time holed up in my apartment alone, that I somehow forgot that anyone else was real.  Even though Switch had shattered my belief that he only existed at work, I still felt the same about everyone else.  Unless his gravity pulled them out of the ether to play a part in one of his dark games, my coworkers were phantoms.  Puppets whose only purpose was to fulfill necessary roles, so the scenes in my life marked as “work” would feel legitimate.  People were placeholders.

Except they were not.

Here, now, I was a bit part with no meaningful dialogue, making the barest impression on the lives of all the people playing equally inconsequential roles in my life.  How easily I could change that.  It would only take a few words to elevate any one of these bodies into an acquaintance, a friend, a lover, a partner.  My grand epiphany was bittered by the acidic second thought: <i>Yes, talking to strangers </i>is<i> how you meet people, you fucking dumbass.
</i>
But that was not the point.  The point was that I was surrounded by people leading tiny meaningless lives just like mine.  Wait, was that the point?  No.  The point was that if I am not all that special, then I do not have to be a loner outcast.  I can make myself not be one.  Except…

If I could so easily change everything, it would mean that I had been the architect of my isolation all along.  That could not be right.  I never asked for things to turn out like they did.  I never tried to make it happen.  I never chose to be alone when my mom was working two-to-three jobs.  I never chose to feel the rising anxiety when I finally had the chance to meet anyone.  I never chose to lose the people I did finally make myself get to know and trust.

A horn blared at me, and I startled back onto the sidewalk.  The crosswalk’s orange “stop” hand admonished me for ignoring it.  I stared at it in a daze, not quite comprehending it.  Not quite in touch with physical reality.

This was the danger of hoping for connections with people.  To truly believe that I had the power to change things.   It required me to accept my share of the blame for being alone.  I knew the weight of that would crush me.  It felt so much better to just blame it all on the things beyond my control.  So much easier.  So much safer.

“You can go now.”

The voice was encouraging, not impatient.  I mumbled a “sorry” as I looked to the woman who had paused beside me.  She was wearing a clear poncho with bright yellow rain boots even though the sky was clear.  She flashed a smile.  The words “is it supposed to rain later?” formed in my mouth.  She would of course reply “yes.”  I would tell her how I never had a chance to check the news before I left for work.  That things were a little crazy.  She would ask why that was the case, and then I—!

She was already walking away.  The words died in me.  I dawdled behind her for several blocks, too afraid to catch up with her.  Eventually, I had to make a turn where she continued straight.
When the office came into view, I experienced a strange sort of relief.  I knew that, whatever work had in store for me, it was going to be a normal day.  Sure, I would feel a twinge of shame if I had to talk to Ryan, but that was it.  I had accepted that this was how things were.  Ryan had the right to push me out.  There was no point in being upset about it.  It was one more thing I had no control over.  Besides, if Ryan felt like I was not worth the effort, maybe it was because he was the one not good enough to be my friend.  Perhaps instead of shame, it would be indignance I felt if I had to talk to him.

The little lot in front of the building was filled by the time I reached it.  I half expected to find Switch’s car parked next to mine, but it was nowhere in sight.  I checked the tires of my old junker one by one, but they seemed fine.  Next, I checked my watch.  It was already noticeably late for me, but I would not be <i>late</i> late for another ten minutes.

Ten minutes wherein someone might innocently ask what had delayed me.  That one question would be sufficient to unleash the fire hose of hell I wanted to excise from my brain.  No one wanted to hear that.  Crossing my arms, I tried to think of any reason to waste time.  I desperately wished I was a smoker.  It would be so easy to dissolve the minutes in that vice.  A tingling sensation came over my arm in the same place where he had burned himself.  I rubbed it into silence.  I walked inside.

Bea spared me a neutral glance on my way in.  I stuttered out a good morning, which she mirrored clearly.  That was the only interaction I had on the way to my desk.  Before I sat down, I realized something was missing.  No smoke.  More specifically, no cherry smoke.  I turned around.  Switch’s chair was empty.  There was no mug of coffee or glass of Janice’s sweet tea to even suggest he had arrived.  Had he called in sick?  Or had he expected to drive me to work and was waiting at his car?  Or, worse yet, was he pounding on my apartment door demanding that I come out?

“Did you finish coding the protocols to turn off Alpine if someone plays with its insides?”

Boss’ booming voice jolted me back to reality.  “The—”  I shook my head.  “Almost.  I mean, yes, it’s coded, but I wanted to talk with Dave about—"

“Write him an email.  Later.  Let’s chat.”  His massive form had already rotated toward his office.  He gave a paradoxically small wave over his shoulder that I should follow.

There is no other phrase in the English language that raises quite the panic in me as those two words.  Not “Let’s chat about x,” where you know what you are walking into.  Not even “We need to talk,” where the topic is invariable something bad.  The surface-shine innocuousness of “Let’s chat” hides a roulette wheel of every possible outcome from horrific to incredible to nothing.

I scampered after Boss with my mind racing through every scenario.  He left the door to his office open and eased into his chair like a well-fed puma.  Both good signs.  He did not invite me to sit, however, so I hovered awkwardly over the chair in front of his desk.

“You’ve been with us for, what, six months now?”

Five, but close enough.  My shoulders creeped up, and my head sank.  “About, sir.”

“And you’ve seen how poorly things have been going.”

Oh god.  He was going to fire me.

Before I could defend myself, he continued.  “Alpine is deep into its beta stage for functionality, and yet we still have not convinced a single company to do a test roll out of the system.  <i>Not even</i> <i>on our dime</i>.  To say I’m furious with marketing would be an understatement.”

On a delayed reflex, I said, “I would be too.”

“I’ve been pushing marketing to give us a new angle to work with.  They delivered.  Though I’m not going to pretend that I like the idea they came up with.”  He shrugged.  “But I’m a businessman, not a marketing guru, so we’re going to try it.”

I gave my best imitation of earnest interest.

“They’re under the impression that we might have more luck pitching ourselves to other start-ups.  We won’t get quite the level of data I want from them, but their owners are younger.  Hungrier.  They’re a lot less likely to pass up the opportunity to get free toys.  The demographics suggest they have a better chance of seeing the value Alpine will bring them.  Or so marketing says.”  His shrug languidly rolled through his shoulders.  “I’m planning on sending representatives to the next data-focused tech conference that marketing finds.”

It finally clicked why I was in the room.  Tentatively, I guessed, “So, you would like me to represent the company?”

Boss pointed a finger gun at me and made a pop sound with his mouth.  “Bingo.”

“I’d be honored to do it” — and relieved to get a paid vacation away from Switch — “but why not send Dave?”

Boss shrugged.  “Dave’s in his 40s.  He’s going to look too old among all the young folk.  They’ll think he’s behind the times.  It’s not good for the company’s image.  You’re young and you should be able to answer questions about what’s going on under the hood, right?”

Panic.  “Yes, of course.  Maybe not to the degree Dave could, but probably anything they would want to know and we’re allowed to talk about I can cover.”

“Then it’s settled.”  Boss hopped to his feet with surprisingly spryness.  “We haven’t quite decided which conference to attend yet, so I can’t give you any hard deadlines.  I want you to start preparing now and be ready for anything.”

Boss corralled me out of the office and down the hall.  “There’s an outline for the technical half of the talk already, but you’re going to have to fill in the gaps.  Feel free to ask Dave to proofread what you do if you want the double check.  I’ll make it clear to him that this is our primary priority as a business right now.”  Boss grumbled the rest: “More so than making sure the icons are covered in pretty pink bows or whatever the hell it is he’s doing right now.”

The words “technical half” wrung warning hells.  “Uh, who’s doing the other half of the presentation?”  

We stopped before the conference room, and I saw the answer.

“Who else but our charming Tim.”  Boss leaned over and whispered, “You know, I see the potential in you, but you reach a little further, like he has, then both of you are going places with my company.”  He patted me on the shoulder.  “Tim was the one who gave the idea to marketing in the first place.  He’s been to a few conferences before, right Tim?”

Boss looked to Switch, who gave him a thumbs up and a “Yessir.  This will be my fourth in fact.”

“I don’t have a lot of confidence in this whole endeavor, but <i>you</i> have my confidence.  I’m sure that if anyone has a chance at making it work, it’s you.  I look forward to you both proving me wrong and coming back with a client.”

Tim laughed.  “A worthy challenge.  I’m excited to take it on.”

“Then let’s see some work happening!”  Boss clapped his hands, nodded, and made his way back to his office.

I remained frozen in the doorway to the conference room.  Switch was still wearing that beaming smile with his eyes trained on me.  He looked like a busted automaton at Chuck E Cheese’s.  Eventually, he stood and walked up to me.  His hand snaked behind me to reach the doorknob.  “You heard him.  We should get started.”

“No.”

The door clicked shut.  He guided me to my chair as though I were a ninety-year-old man who had lost his cane.  I was certainly shaking like one.  Gently, he pushed down on my shoulder until I lowered myself onto the seat.  He said, “There we go.”

“No.”

He settled into his place, right beside me.  “It’ll be nice to finally work with you one-on-one.  I think we’re going to make quite the team.”

“YOU PROMISED!”


There was no doubt the entire office heard me.  It did not matter.  I was fresh out of the shame needed to care about trivialities like image.  Even the hot tears threatening to spill down my face brought no sense of embarrassment.  They were well-earned.

His expression went blank, but he kept up the lilting tone.  “I’m not quite sure I know what you mean.”

“Did you know?”

“Know what?”

“Last night.  Did.  You.  Know.”

A blaze of fire flashed through his black eyes as his fingers started tapping.  The wild fury and bliss of a tiger whose cage door was open.  He whispered in staccato, “This?  Us together?  Of course.”

“You promised me space.”

“That was a personal matter regarding personal time.  This is business.  Those two dimensions don’t overlap for me.  I’ll keep my promise in exactly the manner I intended it.”

I balled my fists.  The only thing I wanted was to plant each one deep in his skull.  To give this animal a taste of the feral wrath he deserved.  Instead, the impotent tears of a man tethered to irrelevant things like civility, law, and social grace came tumbling down.  “You are a lying piece of shit.”  Murmured empty words that could not convey the unfairness of it all to an uncomprehending monster.

He leaned over to speak into my ear.  “I need you to make a choice, now, and stick to it.”

Almost voiceless: “Who cares what you need.”

He grabbed me by the shoulder and yanked me towards him, so I had to stare directly into his bottomless eyes.  “I can’t balance these shifts.  Not anymore.  You can have me at the surface, where I am bubbly, and friendly, and helpful.  Or we go straight down to ground zero and you get the real me.  And we will never come back up again.  No more intermediates.  No more yo-yoing.  We either flip the switch or we don’t.  What do you want?”

His nails were deliberately cutting into my skin, and I grit my teeth.  I so wanted it.  To give him his answer physically.  To stop holding back.  To knock out teeth.  To rip out hair.  To claw him to shreds.  To let him try to take me out in the process.  Let both of us destroy each other right then and there.  For both of us to lose everything.  A proper fair ending for both of us.

Except I was afraid that, somehow, he would still come out on top.  That he would win, and I would lose.

I peeled his hand off me then scraped the tears from my face.  “I want the surface.”

He deflated, slouching back in contemptuous disappointment.  The fire in his eyes extinguished.  The tiger would remain in his cage.  His lazy sneer faded when he glanced at the door.  “Then act like you want it.”

Two knocks, and then Ryan’s head peeked into the room without waiting for an invitation.  “Are you two all right?”

“We had a uh… small disagreement over a personal matter.”  His voice had transitioned back into a bashful melodic tone effortlessly.  “Sorry, you know he gets a little emotional sometimes.  I think we’ve worked it out though, right?”

I choked out a hoarse, “Yeah.”

Ryan saw through us, but Switch spewed placating nonsense until Ryan gave up and left.  There was a window overlooking the outside world in that conference room.  Once my gaze landed on it, it stayed there until evening.  I watched the fluffy, white clouds drift, and swirl, and mutate against a brilliantly blue sky all day long.  It never did rain.
