The opened can of beans sat neglected on the counter as he paced in front of the fireplace for hours.  I passed the time by staring at it and its unopened companion.  It seemed wrong to leave the task half finished.  Plus, my empty stomach felt its trivial physical needs trumped my brain’s desire to stew in misery.  I drained the cans, rinsed their contents, and rummaged around until I found two bowls.  Once filled, I slid his bowl of stale black beans to the teetering edge of the counter.  He would discover it if and when he wanted it.  Despite everything, I still had enough self-preserving pettiness left in me to keep the equally expired, but newly opened, pintos for myself.

One by one, I popped them into my mouth, chewing them lazily, like an overfed cow.  Occasionally, I would look back to check the window.  The snow dunes were still there.  At least the weather had eased.  There was only a gentle dusting of powder drifting down.  The cabin would have looked Hallmark-card-charming from the outside.  Well, until someone noticed the makeshift escape ramp and buried car.  Charming images are never quite what they seem, are they?

As I chased the last two wayward beans around with my spoon, the rhythmic tap of his footsteps ceased.  The scraping of my utensil was deafening in the silence, so I stopped too.  I glanced at him but his expression was unreadable in the dying firelight.  Whatever thought had gripped him resolved itself.  He quick walked towards the door.  Yanking his jacket off the top of the fallen coat tree, he was outside before he had even zipped it up.

Whatever new scheme he had come up with, I was bound to have a part in it.  Reluctantly, I abandoned my bowl and plodded over to the coat tree.  I stared at it.  It would lie prone on the ground forever unless I did something about it.  Sighing, I righted it and moved it further from the door.  Hopefully, it would take no further abuse there.  I put on my ski jacket.  My gloves.  Buried my hands deep in the jacket’s pockets.  Turtled my neck down into its collar.

The door slammed open, grazing me before I had time to react.  He stumbled in backwards like he was dragging something.  The door ricocheted off the wall into his shoulder.  He shoved it out of the way again.  I caught it and held it for him.  With another frustrated tug, he pulled the full length of an uncoiled garden house inside.  Panting, he threw down the end he was carrying, commanded “Close it,” and stormed into the kitchen.

On the way, he yanked off a pair of gloves he must have found while fetching the hose.  As he stuffed them in his pockets, a bungee cord fell onto the floor.  I looked outside.  The disk sled and snowmobile sat by the ramp.  A matching red and orange helmet adorned the snowmobile’s handlebar.  All the parts for the Plan B.  As I closed the door, I mumbled, “God dammit.”

Behind me, he noisily hoovered down black beans.  Between mouthfuls, he put down his bowl and spoon.  Taking a serrated bread knife from a knife block, he underhand tossed it at me.  I bolted back into the wall of the cabin, yelping, “What the fuck!”  The knife landed just shy of the hose.

He picked up his bowl again.  “Cut an eight-foot length from the end.”

I knew better than to ask why before complying.  Gingerly, I picked up the knife.  It was solid and looked new.  Sharp.  It would be such a waste to dull it on the plastic hose.  Then again, a sharp knife was better than he deserved.  A blunt one would make more painful wounds.  When it dawned on me that I was contemplating murder, I swallowed down a foul taste at the back of my mouth.  I pushed the homicidal thoughts away and sawed off a piece of hose.  He shoveled the last of his beans into his mouth when I handed it to him.

As he appraised it, I asked, “What’s it for?”

“Siphoning the gas out of my car.  That’s your job.”  He gave me back the hose piece.  I stared blankly at it.  God, I did not want to ask him.  “You’re dismissed.”

A weak breath flowed out of me.  “Am I going to be able to open it?  Or do I need to get into the car to pop the fuel cover?”

“It’s unlocked.”  His tone was as coldly possessive as I had expected it to be.  At least I would not have to ask him to relinquish his car keys.  I nodded, backed up to grab the fuel canister from the reading nook, and hightailed it out the door.

With the blustering gales gone and modest daylight piercing the dense cloud cover, the outside world was less intimidating.  The fog of my breath drifted in place instead of being ripped away.  The cold caressed rather than cut.  The grey sky was a mellow comfort compared to the consuming darkness.  The phrase “eye of the storm” came to me, but I dismissed it.  Hurricanes had eyes.  Blizzards did not.  Hopefully.

I stepped around the snowmobile, followed the tracks we made when we had first dug out the car, and ascended the ramp.  The whole way, fresh powder crumbled under my feet.  That familiar sound came with an ominous feeling of belonging.  The kind evoked by walking through the door of a house that you lived in but was never your home.

From the top of the ramp, I could see the car’s entire voyage.  In the panicked darkness that morning, I was sure I had run 100 yards before I found it.  In reality, the car had barely crawled 50 feet before giving up and nose diving.  I wandered over with no sense of urgency.

He had cleared a path along the driver’s side and dug out the left half of the windshield before giving up.  About an inch of fluff had accumulated over his efforts.  Brushing my hand along the side windows left a clean streak.  The door was unlocked, as he had promised.  I popped the cover, unscrewed the gas cap, and stared into the blackness of the metal refueling tube.

I had seen people steal gasoline in movies before, but watching an actor demonstrate a concept and doing it yourself are different things.  The hose snaked into the filler pipe easily enough.  Next, I was supposed to suck on it to get the siphon started.  I stared at the metal hookup in my hand.  If gasoline smelled potent, it would taste even worse.  I grimaced.  Better to do it on my terms rather than wait for him to get impatient and come out to swear at me.

I gave it one tiny little jolt of pressure and aligned the hose with the canister.  No dice.  On the second try, I sucked on the hose until I felt a burble, sure that was the right cue.  I lined up the canister.  Nothing.  I looked pathetic for the sagging pines, mentally begging for one of them to do the job for me.  I squeezed my eyes shut in defeat.  On my third attempt, I got a mouthful of gasoline.  While I retched that out, I was losing a steady stream of fuel all over the ground.

“SHIT.”

I fumbled the canister and hose together.  The blessed, muffled sound of fluid colliding with plastic brought relief.  Once the can was full, I pulled out the hose.  It was then I realized that the movies never really covered this part.  I stared dumbly as it fountained gas everywhere.  I made a decision.  One quick yank to remove it from the filler line.  Job done.  Never mind that the bottom of the hose vomited gasoline down my pants leg.  At least I could light myself on fire if I got too cold and wanted to warm up.

As I lugged the canister back to the cabin, the door opened and closed.  He leaned comfortably against the snowmobile as he watched me trudge down the ramp.  I dropped the can at his feet.  He glanced at it then said, “We’re not done yet.”  He strode past me up the ramp.

Pulling out his car keys, he manually unlocked the trunk.  Dully, I watched him kneel to lift the hatch up and position himself on the left side of Alpine’s 200-pound frame.  He looked back at me.  A verbal order was unnecessary.  I took my place on the right.

As the metal goliath tilted towards me, I scrambled to lift of my share of the weight.  I easily cleared the lip of the trunk, but he struggled as the weight listed to his side.  Once it became obvious that he was stuck, I set my half down on the lip.  “Move, I’ll get it.”

His body tensed as if I had challenged him, but he set his half down and waved for me to proceed.  I rotated Alpine 90 degrees and rocked it forward.  When I had most of the bulk free of the car, I looked towards his feet, panting.

“You’re doing well.  Keep going.”  I could hear his crooked smile seeping into his voice.

With my arms shaking and my grip slipping, my first instinct was to plead for help.  I went with my second idea.  “Would you like me to drop it?”

A dramatic huff.  He took his place in front of me to reclaim his half of the load.  Together, we carried that overhyped paperweight back to the cabin.  Fortunately, the mumbled swearing began at the bottom of the ramp and stopped as soon as we dropped Alpine onto the disk sled.  I stood there, wheezing out wispy clouds with him.  Staring at the disk sled made me realize that we should have put Alpine on it the first place instead of carrying it.  By god, I hated that heavy hunk of metal.  He spat on it, and I snorted.  For once we agreed on something.

Pulling bungee cords out of his coat pockets and dropping them on Alpine one by one, he said.  “Fuel ‘er up.”

“You trust me to set up your ride?”

“It’s not my ride.  It’s my dad’s.”  He kneeled to strap Alpine to the sled.  I went to fuel up the snowmobile.   “Also, I would like to assume you’re competent enough to pour fluid from one container into another.  Even if you did spill the gas everywhere by my car.”  I paused with my hand on the gas cap.  “Thought I wouldn’t notice the smell?”  He laughed hollowly.

I returned to the task at hand.  “If it’s not your ride, does that mean you’ll let me drive it?”

“You ever driven one of these babies?”

I so wanted to lie.  “No.”  I hesitated before asking, “Have you?”

“Twice, and on that very beast.”  He strummed at the taut bungee cords.  “I only wrecked her the second time, and that was on purpose.”  He stood up.  “Once you’re done with that, get the ice scraper from my car.  I’m going to get a few more things from the cabin.”

“That puny thing is useless.  We should take the shovel if anything.”

“We don’t have room for the shovel.  But if you don’t want to bring the scraper, then I expect you to use your teeth to de-ice the windshield and my visor as needed.”

“Yeah… okay.”

The cabin door opened and closed.  When the fuel canister was empty, I tossed it aside and twisted the gas cap in place.  I grabbed the ice scraper from the car and stashed it in my pocket.  It was not going to hurt anything to have it.  When we reconvened, he was using the longer length of hose to tie the disk sled to the back of the snow mobile.  I spied my duffle bag on the seat of the snowmobile but not his suitcase.

“Where’s your stuff?”

“In your bag.  Where else would it be?”

“Thanks for dumping out my stuff.”  I lifted the under-packed bag to feel its weight and dropped it.  He had stuck some heavy things in it.

“Don’t be so dramatic.  Your presentation clothes are in there too.”

I flinched at the image of him picking through my things.  Deciding what was worthy of taking.  I swallowed my discomfort and unzipped the bag.

“I didn’t pack our toothbrushes.  I think we can both spare a dollar once we’re back in civilization.  And you can buy yourself a single use razor if mine isn’t to your taste.”

Besides the clothes, I saw the flashlight.  Then his shaving kit.

“For now, we’ll need to travel light.  It’s going to be hard enough for me to maneuver with just you and Alpine.  We can pick up the rest of our things after the conference.  We’ll rent a truck or something to get back here and pull my car out.”

I finally found the excess weight.  The remainder of the carton of Crossroads.  I picked up a handful of packs and held them out in his direction.

“Put them back.”

“You don’t need them.”

He stood up.  He held out his hand for the cigarettes.  I defiantly kept them.

“And here I thought we were doing so well!  We were acting like a real team.  Do you truly want to ruin this?  You know I’m more than happy to help you do that.”  The last words slipped into monotone.  I gave him the packs.  He put them back in the duffle bag, zipped it up, and shoved it into my arms.
As he walked to the front of the snow mobile, I said, “There were spare batteries.”

“Mm?”

“For the flashlight.  Did you grab the spare batteries?”

“I saw them.”

“Okay.”

He set to work bringing the vehicle to life.  Tapping on buttons, turning the ignition key, and pulling levers on different parts of the dashboard.  Finally, he pulled a cord on it, and the snowmobile grumbled like a drowning a lawn mower.  It settled into a steady, chunking roar like a piece of construction equipment on the third pull.

He hopped onto the snowmobile.  I stared at the seat.  The single seat.  At least it was long, and he was sitting at the very front of it.  I straddled the back and clutched my duffle bag tightly.

He yelled over the engine, “Listen, that’s not going to work.  This isn’t a car.  I’m going to need you to lean with me into turns, or I’m not going to have any control over her at all.  Plus, you’re probably going to fall off back there.”

“I can lean from back here.”

I am not sure he heard me, but when I stayed put, he said, “We can sit here as long as you’d like.”  Lazily, he stretched his hands over his head.

My entire posture sunk.  I scootched all the way forward.  There was no point in arguing that the middle would be good enough.  The sooner this scheme failed, or by some miracle succeeded, the sooner it would be over.  He reached back, grabbed my hands, and wrapped them around his waist.

“Fucking—!”

“I need you girlfriend close, boy.  Don’t worry, I won’t tell Ryan if you don’t.”  He released me to snag the helmet from the handlebar.  Pulling away from him was not worth the hassle.

“You only have one helmet.”

“My dad only has one helmet.”  He pulled it over his head.  “But I won’t be able to talk once the visor is down.  Any last words?”  I shook my head.  He flicked the visor into position and turned to face forward.
Slowly, methodically, he eased us through a wide circle to get into alignment with the ramp.  As he rolled his shoulders, he did one quick check to see where Alpine was.  He held up three gloved fingers.  Then two.  One.

He gunned it up the ramp.  Alpine’s weight yanked the snowmobile, and I nearly fell off.  The cold burned my eyes, but we passed his car with ease.  I had no way to gauge our speed.  It felt like it was fast enough that falling off would hurt, but not result in immediate death.  I clamped my eyes shut, telling myself to just hold on until it was over.

Ten seconds later, something was jabbing me in the ribs.  I wanted to scream at him, but when I opened my eyes, I could see he was starting to lean into a turn.  When I followed suit, he stopped elbowing me.  We corrected back to center together.  I looked behind us.  A wall of trees.  The cabin was out of sight.  I looked ahead.  A wall of trees.  Nothing looked like a road.  How was he supposed to navigate down a winding road when there was no road?

We leaned into another turn.  Then he flipped sides on a dime.  He had gotten too close to one of the trees that appeared where I had been pretending pavement would be.  We had to be close to the road though, right?  And even if we strayed from it, no matter what, we would eventually make it to the main street we had turned off to get here.  Right?!  That is how roads are supposed work.

The right side of the snowmobile kicked up, and we spun on the left ski.  A deafening crack.  We both went flying.  The terror of catapulting through the air.  Gravity had stopped working.  Apparently, I blacked out after that.
