The next few weeks rolled by with uncomfortable ease.  We engaged in necessary, polite small talk without hesitation.  Without an underlayer of subtext, we discussed presentation strategy and what to feature in the live demo.  When he would come back from a smoke break with a glass of iced tea, he took to bringing one for me as well.  I had never tried Janice’s iced tea.  My main excuse was that I was not a fan of the stuff.  My real reasoning was that it felt like Janice made it for him and him alone.  Sure, other people were encouraged to have some, but dodging his territory was my reflex.

So, when he placed the glass before me the first time, I was horrified.  Back then, acting like this was normal as per our agreement had taken all my will power.  Now, accepting the offering without hesitation was the reflex.  Plus, Janice really did make good iced tea.  When I ventured to compliment her on it, she took the opportunity to gush about how she grew the herbs herself.  We must have talked for thirty minutes.  After that, she started to say hello to me in the morning.  Over time, it morphed into a daily chat.

Things also changed with Dave.  Switch only knew the basics of coding.  Any time we talked to Dave about my half of the presentation, if Switch asked something, it was usually misinformed.  Sometimes, his understanding of a concept was so bad that his questions were incoherent.  I understood what he meant though.  So, I would correct him or translate what he was saying into something workable.  Half the time I ended up answering the question.  Having a programming novice to compare me to helped Dave realize that I was at least somewhat competent.  Dave started asking me what I meant when I misspoke instead of just telling me how I was wrong.  If Boss wandered by, Dave would let me answer the questions directed at me.

Then there was the incident with Clara.  By the time Switch and marketing settled on the Alaska conference, there was only two weeks left to finish our preparations.  We started working through lunch to get everything done.  Normally, he and Clara ate together to talk about fashion and pop culture, while Ryan rolled his eyes at both of them.  Switch was more than capable of multitasking between socializing with Clara and collaborating with me, so the three of us ate together.  Ryan did not join us.  I will get to him later.

Anyway, on one of those days, I was deep in thought, trying to scribble out an explanation for one of the features Dave had coded.  I wanted to be technical enough to sound informed without being too jargony.  My most recent attempt was meandering, long winded, and embarrassing.  My eraser obliterated it with gusto.  In the process, I elbowed Clara’s coffee.

Thankfully, I only dumped it on myself and not on her.  While I apologized profusely for the ruining her drink, she grabbed napkins from the dispenser at the center of the table to help sop up the mess.  Switch decided to add his two cents.  “All knees and elbows as usual.  It looks to me like you owe that girl a new coffee.”

I mumbled something to the effect of, “I could pay for it, but I can’t order it.  I can’t pronounce Coffee-ese.”

“I teach <i>Coff-ese</i> classes nights and weekends,” Clara quipped effortlessly.

“Guess I better sign up then.”  There was another sentence hanging off the tip of my tongue.  The words faltering at the gulf between my status and Clara’s.  My thoughts were the spasming tick of cog teeth trying to push forward and jolting back.  Somehow, they ground past the grit of my lack of self-worth and spun free like a well-oiled machine.  “I guess I wouldn’t be much of a gentleman if I couldn’t get a pretty gal the coffee I owe her.”

She rolled her eyes, so I thought my banter fell flat.  Except, after that, I swear I caught her watching me out of the corner of her eye while she talked with Switch.  And later, when he and I picked up our papers to move back to conference room, he gave me a thump on the back, teasing, “About time you said something.”  So, I guess I flirted with Clara.  And she liked it?

The point I want to make is that it felt like I had left my reality and walked into a parallel dimension where I had never seen under his mask.  One where he <i>was</i> the wingman that I had hoped he would be when we met.  We played off one another exactly as I thought we could.  His set up and responses to my sarcasm made me sound funny instead of obnoxious.  Having his stamp of approval meant that my coworkers realized I was just quiet.  Maybe a little shy.  <i>He humanized me.</i>  Made me less alien.

So what if I went home so sick every day that I could barely force myself to eat.  So what if the beer bottles kept appearing in my fridge.  So what if I kept telling myself to stop buying them, but the case somehow found itself in my hands, in the car, in the apartment, more than half gone by the next morning, when the rest would be dumped down the disposal amid swearing that <i>this</i> was the last time.  So what if every interaction with him corroded the integrity of my soul.  Suddenly, I was on friendly terms with everyone.

Everyone except for Ryan.  He, if anything, retracted further from me.  Ryan had talked such a good game about how he wanted Switch and I to “stop triggering one another.”  What a lie.  I was bending over backwards to pretend everything was normal and be friendly with the sheep-skinned wolf, and Ryan hated me for it.  He sneered at me when no one was looking.  In conversation, he would do everything in his power to talk to everyone but me.  He answered questions I asked by making jeering comments at my expense.  While Switch and I were working, Ryan would make excuses to interrupt us.  To get Switch to pay attention to him instead of me.  His jealousy was beyond infuriating.  And Switch absolutely thrived on it.  He positively glowed as he downplayed Ryan’s caustic remarks.

On the afternoon a couple of days before we left, Switch and I were at the garage together.  We had moved our cars to the top level and parked side-by-side to compare trunk sizes.  He bent over my junker with a retractable tape measure, trying to convince me that my car had three fewer inches space in all directions than what was physically there.  He placed the free end of the measure on the trunk floor and had the roll’s body floating at some ambiguous point in space related to nothing.

“See?” he said as though what he was doing was obvious.

“I see you’re measuring air.”

“We’ve got to work on your imagination, hun.”  He released the tape and it shot back into the holder.  He pointed insistently at the empty space.  “This is where the bottom of your lid hinge will be when the trunk is closed.  Alpine is an inch taller than that.  The only way our baby is going to fit is if we engineer a pair of long dents in the top of its chassis with a hammer.”

Yes, I smiled at the notion of beating the crap out of the metal box with a hammer.  And, yes, I hated it that he had perfectly tuned himself to my sense of humor.  “We can turn it long ways though.”  I took the measuring tape and laid it out from the front to the back of the trunk.  “See?  We’ve got an inch of clearance.”

“You truly are blind, bless your heart.  Your seats are angled back and the trunk curves.”  He pulled the tape a foot towards him.  “This is all the square space you’ve got.  It’s just not going to fit that way.”

“The seats fold forward.”

“The angle will be too steep.  Alpine’s too tall to fit like that.”

“I really think it will.”

He shrugged.  “All right, then prove it.  You go lug that thing up here and show me how you’re going to put it in.  By yourself of course.  I don’t intend to waste my time on something doomed-to-fail.”

“Fine.”  I turned to leave, mentally bracing myself for the lifting ahead of me.

“I just have one question.”  His melodic tone muted.

I froze.  He had not referenced the undercurrent of his real self since we agreed to the new game rules.  I shrugged as though nothing was out of the ordinary.

In full singsong, he said, “You know I’m always delighted to share my car with you, but are you sure you want <i>me</i> in <i>your</i> car?”

The words he spoke were not the real question.  What he meant was <i>are you sure you want to test the boundaries of our arrangement?  Do you want to see what happens if I don’t get my way?</i>  “No…  Maybe I don’t…”


“Fantastic.”  He trotted over to his car.  “There’s more than enough space in my trunk.  See?”  I dragged myself over to pretend to watch him measure the space.  “It’s probably for the best anyway.  No offense, but your car is a little old.  I’m not sure how it will take a cross-country trek.  Plus, there would be no room for our luggage, and Alpine, and us in your car.  Well, maybe there’s enough space for your luggage.  I have the distinct feeling that you travel light.  But I’m a creature of comfort.”  As the first wisps of s’mores smell came to me, Switch said, “Hey, Ryan,” without looking back.

I still felt I owed Ryan the courtesy of politeness, so I turned around and gave a weak, “Hey.”

Ryan was mid-drag on his cigarette.  His stony expression remained unchanged as he breathed out.  “So, you two are driving to Alaska.  The week together at the conference wasn’t enough alone time?”  

Technically, Ryan was addressing me and Switch.  He was staring at me though.  I leaned back against Switch’s car, and my gaze fell to the concrete.

Switch straightened up with a drawn-out sigh.  “Ryan, we talked about this.”

“I don’t remember you telling me that you were driving with him.”

“It’s really none of your business.”

“No.  I’m not playing right now, Tim.”

“RYAN.”  Switch spun on his heels as he slammed his trunk closed.  Luckily, I had flinched away from Switch when he raised his voice, or the hatch would have crushed my fingers.  “We’re at work.  We talked about <i>this</i>.”

“Then let’s talk again tonight.”

Switch rolled his shoulders.  “I’m busy tonight.  And for the rest of the week, I think.”

“Tim—!"

“I guess we’ll have to talk after the conference.”

Ryan’s hands balled into fists.  Switch mouthed something.  If I had to guess, he repeated “we talked about this.”

Ryan pointed at the ground.  “To.  Night.”  He left in a cloud of smoke without waiting for Switch to respond.

Switch murmured, “I’ll see if I can clear my schedule.”  He scraped his tongue against his teeth in disgust and crossed his arms.  His eyes darted to mine, and I looked away.  “You’re not going to ask?”

“About what.”

“What Ryan and I talked about.”

I swallowed.  “T-that’s personal business.”

In flat monotone: “You’re learning.”  His tone softened again, but it came out more discordant than melodic.  “Close the trunk to your car, would you?”

I nodded, relieved to have an excuse to move away from him.  As I complied, he took out one of his Crossroads and the lighter.  He had not smoked in my presence since we started working on the presentation.  Getting a fresh whiff of that acrid sweetness made me gag.  It smelled so much stronger than I remembered.

I dared to ask, “Did you stop smoking on your balcony?”

“Maybe you’re <i>not</i> learning.”  He blew a straight column of haze above his head.  His voice returned to its normal fakeness.  “No.  I’m taking our agreement quite seriously.  The personal one, I mean.  Well, the professional one too.  You know what I mean.”

“Sure.”  I stared at the trunk of my car, crossing and uncrossing my arms.  Feeling like I needed him to dismiss me before I could go, even though it was the end of the workday.  Even though he was not my superior and had no right to decide whether I could go or not.

“You look anxious.  You want one?”  I glanced over.  His outstretched arm was offering me a new cigarette.  “They tend to mellow me out.  I know it’s a filthy habit, but you won’t get addicted after just one.”

My hand started to reach out to take it.  “No.”  I rerouted, running my fingers through my hair as I shook my head.  This was his underlayer channeling out through the superficial kindness.  It was a test.  Ryan and I had muddied the waters of his personal/profession boundary too much.  Time to let the silt and the sand and the toxins settle.  “Thanks, but you know I can’t stand the smell of smoke.”


He shrugged.  “You learn to love it with time.”  The lit cigarette went to his mouth, but he stopped before breathing in.  “Actually, I’ve heard that smell ties to memory more strongly than any other sense.  That all it takes is the right scent and then troves of memories you’ve not thought about for decades can come rushing back.  Do you think that’s true?”

I gripped my left wrist.  “I guess.  Burnt hot dog smell always reminds me of the one time I went camping as a kid.”

“Camping?  You?  Really.  How did that go?”

“I don’t really remember any of it.  I just know I was in the woods, and it was dark, and we had burnt hot dogs.  The fire was too big.  I was really young at the time.”  The words, “What about you?” almost rolled off my tongue.  It looked like he was waiting for that very opening.  I swallowed those pleasantries down.  “I need to get my stuff together though.  Day’s over.  Gotta get home.”

“You?  Going home at 5:00?  My, my, does someone have plans for tonight?”

“No.”  The blunt answer fell out of me.

His expression froze.  My weak honestly had thrown a wrench in his gears.  Once he formed a response, though, he delivered it smoothly.  “Well, I’d hate to keep you from a busy night of doing nothing.  I’ll see you tomorrow.”  With that formal dismissal, I heaved a sigh of relief.

Until I realized he was walking towards me.  I took a useless step back.  He stopped directly in front of me.  The unlit cigarette dropped into my breast pocket.  He whispered, “In case you change your mind later.  If you don’t have any matches, feel free to stop by.  I’ll loan you a light.”  His half-smoked Crossroads dropped onto the ground.  He snuffed it out of existence with the toe of his shiny black work shoes.  He winked before making his way to the staircase.

That evening, I disassembled the cigarette.  As I sat on the couch, I unrolled the paper.  I poured the tobacco out into a little pile.  I picked apart the plastic-y cotton threads of the filter.  Nothing about the innards of the cigarette looked dangerous.  It was just plant dust, paper, and fluff.  When rolled up, there was nothing sinister about the innocent white and yellow tube it made.

Even when lit, the only obviously harmful part was the burning end.  That was negotiated by keeping one’s fingers safely on the filtered end.  The true warning that something was wrong came from its smell.  The dirty, husky stink that the cigarette companies did everything in their power to mask by adding perfumes of inviting chemicals to the pack box and paper.  A musk that addicts came to associate with their fix and would eventually crave.

As the tobacco leaves sifted through my fingers like sand down an hourglass, the screaming echoed through my floorboards.  It did not last long, and I caught none of the words.  Pop music came on soon after.  I did not hear the door open and close again, so I guess Ryan slept over that night.
