“Can I get a whopper and fries?”

A shade of conflicted concern passed over the expression of the gal working the register.  Her hand nervously brushed against her crewcut, dirty blonde hair on its way to fidget with her green and gold earrings.  Before she had to say anything, Switch stepped to my side.

“He means a big mac.  We’ve been on the road all day, and we’re both pretty tired.”

She laughed.  “That’s all right.  He’s not the first person to mix up the names.”  An effortless lie from someone so young and so clearly new to the job.  She turned back to me.  “What size fry would you like?”

“Uh… large?”

“Would you like something to drink?”

“Yeah sure, whatever soda you’ve got.”

He gave me a playful shove.  “It’s like you’ve never ordered fast food before!  You’ll get your own from the dispenser by the condiments.  Just tell her the size cup you want.”

“Right.”  I already knew all that.  Ordering food had always been a minefield for me.  The mere idea of asking strangers to do things for me makes me nervous, even when it is their job to do what I ask.  In town, there was a restaurant or to where I was a regular.  The people working the counters knew me.  Or at least they knew my order.  All I would have to say was “my usual, please” and, after an admonishing eyeroll that I was so unadventurous, I would get exactly what I wanted.  “I guess a large.”

“Okay, and are you two together?”

He said yes as I said no.  The cashier looked understandably confused.  He clarified, “We’re driving together, but I think we’re paying separately.”

I mumbled, “Yeah.”

The cashier told me a price, swiped my card, and sent me off with a cup and a “Thank you for choosing McDonalds!”  Her tone conveyed a veiled sense of relief to be taking his order instead of dealing with more of my dazed confusion.

I snuck off to get myself a cup of ice water.  This was our first stop since coffee breakfast, so I downed the entire cup immediately and refilled it.  I stayed back there as I waited for my order.  He swung by to get himself a sweet tea.

After taking one sip, he sighed.  “It’s just not the same, you know?”

“Hm?”

“Once you’ve had Janice’s iced tea, anything from a company is just… disappointing.”  He poured out the contents of the cup and refilled it with lemonade.  “Maybe I should have asked her to make us some for the road.  There would have been room enough for a little ice box in the back seat.  You packed light, like I thought you would.”

“I don’t need a lot of things for a short trip.”

“Hun, you don’t <i>own</i> many things.”

One of the guys doing food prep called out an order number.  Somehow, Switch’s order came up first.  He patted me on the shoulder.  “Don’t worry, I’m sure yours will be next.  I’ll find us a good table while you wait.”

“Sure.”  It was the best response I could give to that.  We had come in during that time when it is too late for lunch and too early for dinner.  No one else was in the McDonalds.  Of course my order would be next.  It would take him no effort to find us a “good” table, because every table was empty.  He had made little slips like that all day.

For coffee breakfast, he had grabbed my order.  He told me that he would make mine just the way I liked it.  When he got to the creamers and sugars, he remembered that I drink black and hesitated.  After fixing his coffee-flavored milk, he handed back my untouched cup as if it was a joke that he had planned on making all along.

When we stopped for gas, he explained how he would buy on the way there, and I would buy on the way back.  That would make it easier to remember whose turn it was.  I gently reminded him that he had the company credit card.  We were supposed to put travel expenses like gas on it.  That one he did not turn into a joke.  He silently pulled out the card, his stare unwavering.  I decided not to point out his mistakes after that.  As hard as it was to watch him vibrating with excitement that he had me all to himself, it was better than breaching his mask to draw the real animal out.

Hearing my order number pulled me back to reality.  I went to the counter, took my tray, and generically thanked anyone who was listening and cared.  He had settled at a table in the middle of the room.  A spot where he would be the most comfortable, and I would be the most uncomfortable.

I sat across from him and fussed at the wrapper on my burger.  The many lunches with him had taught me to force myself to eat even when my appetite had failed me.  Nothing could cure the way stress made food tasteless though.  I picked at the spongy hamburger bun.  Maybe tasting nothing was a benefit in this case.

“Hey.”

I glanced to his side of the table.  He had already demolished his burger and was picking at his fries.  

“Yeah?”

“I don’t have to tell you how crazy this is, right?”  He rested his head on his hands and leaned towards me.  “Two weeks of just you and me.”

I slouched into my seat.  The too-low, hard chair back dug into my spine.  “We’ve had plenty of alone time already.”

“I wouldn’t exactly call being interrupted by Clara, or Janice, or Dave, or Boss every five minutes ‘alone.’  And don’t get me started on Ryan.”

“You’ve loved every second of what Ryan’s been turning into.”

He eased back with a contented sigh.  “You feel it.”

Something told me he was not referring to Ryan’s behavior.  “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”  I took advantage of the increased distance between us to lean forward and start wolfing down my food.

“We’re doing it again.”  He watched me use eating as an excuse to not respond.  “We’re referencing our true reality.  I didn’t even have to ask you.  You felt it.  We’re in a new space.  A new start.”

I put down the remaining chunk of burger.  “No, I’m sorry.”

“About what?”

“You’re wrong.  I didn’t <i>feel</i> anything.”  I took a sip of water to clear my throat.  “I let you bait me into saying something I shouldn’t have said.  I messed up.  It won’t happen again.  I made my choice back at the office.  Surface.  I’m sticking to it.”

“No.”  He gave his best impression of distressed.  “No, no, no.  You can’t truly want to be so shallow.”

“You hated the ‘intermediate.’”

His voice went flat.  “I hated getting so deep with you and then having to be so fake moments later because some ignorant, weak-minded sleepwalker ambled into our space, expecting me to dream with them.  It didn’t work professionally.  Our personal oasis was bleeding into the professional bubble.  But this is a <i>new space</i>.  It’s just <i>us</i>.”

“Nothing.  Has changed.”

“<i>Time</i> has changed.  We have time now.  Time for me to ease between modes.  Time for you to wade deeper at your own pace.”

“No.”

I went back to eating.  He sat in still silence, staring at his fries.  When I finished my meal, I brought my tray to a trashcan.  Disposed of the wrapper and carton in the bin.  Left the tray in the rack above.  I returned to the table and dared to ask if he wanted me to take care of his garbage as well.  He gave the briefest wave of permission.  I dumped his trash and added his tray to the pile.

The second time I returned to the table, I hoped he would get to his feet.  After all, we still had hours of driving ahead of us.  He remained seated.  I prayed for the strength to outlast him as I settled into my chair.

Something finally clicked in his skull, and his posture straightened.  His attention refocused on me.  “You know, it’s not really your place to choose how I act.”

“Not any more than you get to choose how I respond.”

He laughed politely.  “I don’t think that’s quite the same thing.  No offense, but you don’t seem to have much control over your responses.”

“We should probably hit the road.”

“Not until you’ve heard my proposal!  I just want you to think about this: can you really take two weeks of nonstop faking?  No breaks.  No reprieve.  I can.  It’s been my whole life.  But it makes you sick to do it even for a workday.  I’ve seen the way you’ve been shambling around Blossom in the evenings.  And I’ve seen what you’ve been bringing back home.”

“That’s none of your business.”

“Listen, I don’t care that you’ve fallen off the wagon.  The point is, pretending surface me is the only me is unhealthy for you.  We’re not like everyone else.  We’re so drawn to the real that we go there whether we mean to or not.  If I make the briefest reference to it, you fall in with me, because it’s in your blood.  Just let it happen.”

“No.”  I stood up.  If he would not go to the car of his own volition, then he would at least follow me out there to keep talking.  I hoped that was the case anyway.

He shot to his feet and got in front of me.  I could tell he was trying to catch my eyes, so I looked straight up.  Frustrated, he took a step back and crossed his arms.  “Just consider this: being able to say exactly what you want to say to me with no retaliation.  None.  Because I am asking for it.  You could tell me exactly how you feel about me.  No pretending that we’re friends.  No judgement from anyone else if you don’t say I’m wonderful.  You know what?  You don’t even have to say it.  Just think it.  Let yourself <i>think it in my presence</i>.”

No amount of self-control would have been enough to reject that invitation.  Every radioactive metaphor I had been swallowing down gushed into my mind.  How he mutated everything and everyone.  The uniform, indiscriminate obliteration of the sacred intangibles.  Safety.  Stability.  Trust.  Objective truth.  All the things that make life more than just a cold dark place died around him.

He was the Hiroshima Bomb embodied.  I despised him.  I wanted him to like me.  He terrified me.  I wanted to stop caring.  To fit into that image of the Garden of Eden that he projected over his hellscape of lies, manipulation, and corruption.

I caught myself listing to the side.  “I’m going to…”  I waved a pointed finger around limply, focused on nothing.  My blurry eyes searched the dining area for a bathroom.  It dawned on me that I had seen them down a hallway by the entrance.

“Maybe you should sit down.”

“N-no.”  I weakly brushed past him and stumbled to the exit.  He followed me to there but let me continue to the bathroom on my own.  I half collapsed on the door to the first stall as I opened it.  Held on long enough to take the last few steps to the toilet, where I dropped to the floor.

Back at the table, I had doubted I would get there without throwing up.  Now that I was there, nothing would come.  I rested my forehead on the rim of the seat, panting.  Listening to my heartbeat scream through my skull.  The tears welled up in my eyes when I remembered this was day one.  Day one of two weeks.  How in the hell was I supposed to survive this?

The door to the bathroom quietly swung open and closed gently.  The clack of a dominant stride on the tile.  The scrapes of fabric as he sat down.  I expected the lighter to start clicking and almost laughed that my first thought was, <i>you’re not allowed to smoke in here</i>.  The lighter never came out.

“Feel any better?”

I struggled to straightened up.  The stall door was open, and I hated that he could watch me while I was in such a pathetic state.  The noisy clattering of something rolling across the floor.  I looked back when a bottle of pills bumped against my leg.  As I picked it up, I was sure it was going to be full of LSD or Ecstasy or some party drug I had never even heard of.  It was plain old aspirin.  I popped the plastic cap to make sure.  The pills looked right.  I was almost disappointed.

“I get headaches a lot,” he explained.  “I’m not sure if you brought your own, but I thought you would prefer it if I didn’t go through your bag.”

I had not brought any.  I was also unsure how over-the-counter painkillers were going to help in this situation.  Still, I mechanically shook out two pills and swallowed them.  It seemed like the thing someone living in his surface world would do.  I recapped the bottle and rolled it back to him, murmuring an unfelt, “thanks.”

“It’ll get easier.”  He paused to shake the pill bottle once before pocketing it.  “It’s hard right now, because you’ve been bottling it all up.  You lost your outlet when we made the new deal for work.  Now that it’s back, there’s too much that needs to come out.  You’ll need time to adjust.  It will get easier, I promise you.”

I almost said, “I hate you,” but I swallowed it back down.
