A blast of cold air brought me to consciousness.  I was stiff and woozy.  By the time I regained my bearings, the wind had stopped.  Our little ice prison felt more spacious than it had been.  I looked around.  He was nowhere.  The space also felt darker.  I reached for the flashlight.  It had dimmed substantially.  I wondered whether batteries could expire like the canned food had, or if it was the cold that had drained them so quickly.

Thinking about the damage cold can do reminded me of my ears.  I pulled off a glove and checked the margin of each ear.  One seemed fine, but the other burned when I touched it.  I put the glove back on, trying not to imagine black patches of necrosis spreading along my skin.

The wind kicked up again as he slipped around disk sled.  Panting, he tossed my duffle bag at me and gave the monotone command, “Swap the batteries.”  As he resealed the entrance, I dug around in the bag.  I pulled out his packs of Crossroads, then our clothes, before I finally found the batteries caught under a seam in the corner of the bag.  I put everything else away then unscrewed the bottom of the flashlight where the battery compartment was.

He settled in front of me to watch as I slid the old batteries out and popped in the news ones.  Re-screwed the compartment shut.  Flipped the switch.  Nothing happened.  Puzzled, I pushed the switch back and forth again.  Nothing.  I unscrewed the battery compartment and checked the alignment.  The batteries were in there correctly.  It dawned on me as I screwed the compartment shut again.

“Where did you find the spares?”

“On the counter where you left them.”  The suspicion in his voice was palpable.

I grimaced.  “Those were the dead ones.”

“What kind of idiot leaves the dead ones on the counter!?  What do you think a trash can is for!?”  He shoved me, jostling the flashlight out of my hands.  “Put the other ones back in!”

“I was trying to do that!”

I barely had a chance to swap the batteries before he pulled the disk sled away from the entrance.  After yanking the duffle bag from my lap, he crawled out.  Before I could follow, he reached back in for Alpine.  As he dragged, I pushed from my end, but we still struggled to slide the metal brick out.  When we finally succeeded, I tried to leave again.  No dice.  He reached in for the disk sled next.

Because it had been the “door” to the little cave, it did not fit through the entrance.   He rotated it and rammed it against the ice, forcing me to squish myself against the back wall.  A huge chunk of the front wall gave as he pulled the sled through.  The rest of the fort collapsed on top of me.  Swearing through a mouthful of ice is not easy.

I dug myself and the flashlight out of the heap without his help.  It was still dark, but the blizzard had lessened into nothing but icy breezes and dry powder.  For now, the dim flashlight provided enough light to see.  I turned the beam on him.

He had remounted Alpine on the disk sled, secured it with the bungee cords, and tied the hose to sled.  My duffle bag sat on top on Alpine.  When he noticed the light, he waved for me to come over.  Taking the flashlight, he placed the free end of the hose in my hands.

I shook my head.  “Do we really have to?  We don’t even know if it’s still going to boot.  It’s not designed to be out in snow.”

“Do you really want to fight me on this?”

“Don’t you get that we can legitimately die out here?  Alpine is dead weight!  It’s going to slow us down!”  I felt his eyes fix on me through his visor.  My shoulders slumped.  Not sure where to go, I scanned the area for the snowmobile.  It laid pathetically on its side.  Half buried with its handlebars kinked at an odd angle.  The trail back to the cabin was gone, obliterated by the wind.

“Follow me this way.”  His melodic tone was inexplicably back.

The path he picked seemed wrong.  It was perpendicular to direction the snowmobile was pointing.  But he had been the one who stayed conscious through the crash.  He had seen how much the vehicle had spun.  He would have been able to compare that to the fresh tracks it had left.  He had to know the right way to go.  Right?

“You sure do dawdle for someone so concerned about freezing to death.”

I dragged Alpine towards him.  For a while, we traveled in absolute quiet, buried in snow to our waists or deeper.  On the sled, Alpine was far easier to move at least.  And, since he was walking first, it was his problem to clear the path this time.

Still, I was panting like a dog.  The cold air in my lungs was stealing every ounce of warmth left in me.  My eyes squeezed shut as I shambled through his tracks.  When he paused without warning, I weakly stumbled into him.

He steadied me.  “This silence is so depressing, isn’t it?  I think we should pick up where we left off last night.  That hood of yours is a rental, after all.  I think your next payment is due.”

A hoarse pant escaped me.

“No worries.  It’s my turn.  It’s not fair for you to get to talk so much about yourself and to not let me do the same.  But you’re going to listen.  Really listen.  I’ll know if you’re not.”

The argument that I was a captive audience flitted through my mind again.  My throat hurt.  I was tired.  The flashlight flickered menacingly.  I nodded.

“Good.”  He went back to walking.  I expected him to launch into his monologue immediately.  Instead, he pressed forward wordlessly.  We covered another twenty feet before he gave a polite laugh.  “You know, I’ve never told this story to anyone.  I don’t think I’ve even lined up the events in my head.  I never thought there would be any need to tell it.  It makes it hard to know where to begin.”

He left a pause, clearly intending for me to encourage him.  I tried to fake an interested “mhm,” but fell into coughing instead.  Apparently, he gave me credit for the effort.

“I guess it starts with my first girlfriend when I was 16.  I mean we were dating before that, but it was when I was 16 that we had the problem.”

I immediately guessed the answer: he got her pregnant.

“There was nothing wrong with <i>her</i> exactly.  She was gorgeous.  Not the best lay I’ve had in my life, but I could have done a whole lot worse for my first.  And there were no obligations.  She had gotten married young, had a messy divorce, and was not keen on the idea of having a big, committed relationship.  She wanted to have some fun, no strings attached, and that’s what I wanted too.”

“Wait.”  I cleared my throat.  “How old did you say you were?”

“16.  And I’ll save you the effort: she was 26.  And that was the root of the problem.  Well, that and she was my high school math teacher.” — The thought <i>I don’t think </i>girlfriend<i> is the right way to look at this relationship</i> caught in my mouth as he barreled on — “Somehow, the administration started to get the idea that we were a thing.  This was a big problem for me.

“I’ve told you before that I didn’t handle being a teenager very well.  Let’s just say I wasn’t quite the charmer I am now.  Most teachers liked me, because I was smart when I cared enough to do the work.  However, my peers universally hated me.  I had a bit of a reputation for stealing things.  And breaking things.  And people.  I crushed so many children who didn’t know any better.”

He looked back long enough to share genuine smile of dark nostalgia with me.  It faded as he turned forward again.  “I didn’t really understand the concept of ‘consequences’ back then.  Or damage control.  It’s still something I struggle with.  I thought the drama was funny and that was enough.

“My whole young life, I fabricated a world of total isolation and didn’t know I was doing it or see why that was a problem.  That is, until I got old enough to want a girlfriend and realized no one would date me.  Suddenly, I wasn’t calling the shots anymore.  With no social status, I had doomed myself to being a lone-wolf loser.  But then I met her.  We clicked.  Or maybe it’s that we clicked into one another.  Do you know what I mean?”

“I’m… not sure.”

“You like metaphors.  Let me try to make it a metaphor for you:  Think about it like a glass surface.  Or skin.  I like the image better as skin, but I think glass suits the purpose.  If everyone is a flat surface, then it’s easy for them to slide snuggly together.  It’s just as easy for them to slide apart.  That’s just what normal people do.  Slide together and apart cleanly.

“When you’re a little odd, though, when your surface isn’t exactly flat, you never get that full contact.  And the more jagged you are the less contact you make.  I happen to be very jagged.  Just like you.  The thing is, when you take two jagged people and find a way fit them against one another, they lock together in a way that flat people never can.  It’s a connection with so much more surface and depth.  

“With two flat surfaces, there’s an infinite number of ways to come apart.  There’s only two ways to separate a jagged connection.  One is undoing that painstakingly, exact angle along which the two came together.  And then there is every other direction that rips both to ribbons and makes them even more jagged.  Like what happened with you and Alex.  I know you still feel—”

“I got it.”

“Good.  Then you understand why, when I got called down to the principal’s office and they started carefully asking me if I had a ‘special relationship’ with Miss. Dane like I was a child, I had to shut it down.”

“S-sure.”

“So, I told them, yes, we had a special relationship, but not like what they thought.  She was helping me deal with some things.  That threw their psychologist for a bit of a loop, but he asked what she was helping me with.  And I told them that she was the only person I felt comfortable talking to regarding some things going on in my life.  I let him press and press and after what felt like the right amount of reluctance, I told them that it was actually my mom who was molesting me.”

“What the fuck.”  I stopped pulling Alpine.  He continued pressing forward.  His only response was a shrug.  “No, really, what in the goddamn fuck?  What would possess you to do that?”

“It might have been because it was true.”

“Wha—”  I flexed my hands anxiously, before balling them into fists.  “No, none of that bullshit.  Was true, or wasn’t?”

He huffed as he turned around.  “Yes, it was true.  Happy?”  The last word had lost its song.

“No.”  I dropped my arms to my sides.  “Why I be happy that’s true?”

He clicked his tongue before returning to his usual tone.  “If it makes you feel any better, it was a bit of a lie in that she had stopped a few years before I got my girlfriend.  I guess I got too old for her.”

“That doesn’t eve—I don’t… think the way any of it makes <i>me</i> feel matters.  I mean—”

“Then let’s continue.”

I almost interrupted him there, but that was not my place.  Not on something like this.  What the hell could I add anyway?

“So, that little bombshell threw the whole office into a tizzy.  They tried to make me stay at school while they figured out if I was supposed to go to child protective services or something.  I snuck out and walked home.  On some level, I knew they were going to call my dad.  That he was not going to take the news well.  That he was going to beat the shit out of me before throwing me out of the house.  At that point, he was already close to doing it over other little transgressions of mine.  Still.  It was necessary.  A proper goodbye.

“I also was initially planning on getting my dad in trouble for physically abusing me.  That plan went out the window after I got a taste for foster care.  My dad had a good job.  I was accustomed to luxury.  Rich people adopt cute white babies and impoverished colorful ones from whatever country is the most pitiable that month.  They don’t foster teens with behavior problems.”

He stopped again.  “You want to ask something.”

“Just tell your story.”

“No, please.  I’m intrigued.”

“You can probably guess what I’m going to ask.”

“Indulge me.”

I exhaled sharply.  “Did he know?”

“Dad?” He chuckled.  “No.  I wouldn’t have let him off the hook if he did.  He should have known, but he didn’t.  It was adorable really.  I told you he’s a lawyer.  Business law.  But, while he headhunted for the best talent to defend his wife, he played as her criminal lawyer.

“He was so sure she was innocent.  Stretching the truth is in my nature, after all, so my accusations had to be more of me acting out.  What else could it be?  They did a press conference together, believe it or not.  He even correctly accused me of doing this to cover for my girlfriend.  He put a lot of good effort into trying get her in trouble.  Until he saw the photos.”

He waited until I whispered, “What photos?”

“The inappropriate ones of myself I stole from my mom’s stash when I was younger.  I had planned to use them to blackmail my parents into letting me use my college money to buy a motorcycle.  I had never considered that I could use them as evidence to get her thrown in jail.  Not until that day in the principal’s office with the psychologist.  It seems so obvious now.  I still struggle with being a little shorted sighted sometimes, but you already knew that.

“Once dad saw the photos, he stopped defending my mom.  He never apologized to me, but I didn’t need that.  He had fallen in love with a pedophile and helped make her primary victim.  Watching the weight of that guilt drag him down was the only retribution I needed.  Well, that and the money I got when I threatened to sue him.  Unfortunately, he put it in a type of fund where I had to use it for college or “other enrichment and therapeutic activities.”  But that’s neither here nor there.

“As for my mom.  Open and shut case.  It took a while for the courts to get to and finish with her, but my little photos helped the police get a search warrant to seize her whole stash.  As they say on those true crime shows you like, ‘the evidence was overwhelming.’”  He laughed genially.

The entire time he talked, something sat wrong with me.  He was making so many jokes.  Portraying himself not as a victim, but as a master conman.  The fake laugh solidified the feeling.  

“You’re lying, aren’t you?”

He froze.  Recalibrating.  His helmet listed ever so slightly to the side.  “Enlighten me.  What gives it away?”

“You’re talking in your surface voice.  The only time you’ve broken from it is when you were annoyed that I questioned you on a detail.  There’s no way you could talk through that in the ‘oh sweet little me’ tone if it was real.”

I limply lifted my hands and dropped them again, not sure how to begin to express myself.  “This is fucked up.  I mean, this is fucked up even for you.  Why would you make shit like that up!?  Do you want me to feel sorry for you?  Were you jealous that my crappy past was more interesting than your entitled rich wonderland of a childhood?  With two parents, well off, and you clearly got everything you wanted!  The FUCK is wrong with you?!”

He put his hands in his pockets and looked down.  A facsimile of shame I thought.  He nodded to himself.  Walking towards me, he removed the helmet.  I stepped back.  He tsked.  With his eyes still downcast, he held out the helmet for me.  Uncertain of his intensions, I took it gingerly.  Next, he gave me the flashlight.  He moved me to position it over his head.  It fully illuminated his face between flickers.

Dead monotone.  “I know you don’t like it, but I need you to look me in the eyes.”

A terrifying, writhing, possibility swept through my guts.  I did what he asked.  His pupils were normal.  Maybe even a little constructed with the light directly on his icy blue eyes.

“I’m not lying.”  He blinked as a stray snowflake drifted past his eye lashes.  His pupils stayed the same size.

“Y-you’re not?”  It was less a question, and more an utterance of horror that <I>I </I>had fucked up.

He shrugged.

I dropped the flashlight and breathed out, “I’m sorry.”

He snorted a laugh.  “If that’s pity, keep it.  If anyone needs pitied, it’s you.”

“I don’t—I just—How—”  I licked my lips and reset my jaw.  “I don’t get it.  What happened to you is horrific.  But you seem okay with all of it!”

He slipped into a new tone I had never heard from him.  Neither lifeless nor cheery.  Something more thoughtful.  Matter-of-fact and cynical.  “Maybe it’s a defense mechanism.  Or maybe I’m stronger than you.  Well, we both know that one’s true.”  His tone hardened.  “Or maybe it’s because I won.

“How many people come out of that as <i>victors </i>instead of <i>victims</i>?  That fucking bitch will be behind bars for the rest of her life, and it happened <i>by my hands</i>.  She will never have anything good again.  Dad won’t see her.  He won’t even write.  Though I do.  I take a special pleasure in mailing her a written record of my sexual conquests in excruciating detail.  It proves to her that I’m not her toy anymore.

“And I truly think she reads them.  What else is she going to do while she sits there and rots?  I don’t imagine my affairs excite her very much though.  My type isn’t exactly her type.”  He gave his silent cackle.  “I feel sorry for you, really.”

“What?”

“You have no idea what winning feels like.”  He took the helmet back and picked up the flashlight.  “That’s not the important part of the story though.  That’s just the context.”

I murmured, “Jesus Christ.”

Once he was sure I was following him, he continued.  “While they were bouncing me around in foster care, they were also shopping for my psychologist.  Each one tried to treat me for trauma or something.  I didn’t need it.  I had the upper hand in the legal situation.  That was all I wanted.  So, I started playing games with them.

“Miraculous breakthroughs, horrific relapses, finding religion, losing religion, sudden demonic possessions.  It was all great fun until I met the asshole who read my file and understood it.  All of it.

“She didn’t start our first session by asking how I was, what was going on with me, or why did I think I was there.  There was chalkboard in her office.  She outlined the things I had done.  Put them into categories.  Diagnosed me.  ‘Anti-social Personality Disorder,’ she said.  A silly name given that I happen to rather like people.  I was as unimpressed with her boxes and terms as any teen would be, but her next words caught my attention.

“’There’s no treating you.  There’s nothing wrong with you.’

“She was right, of course, but to hear a shrink say it?  Calling me royally confused would be an understatement.  I nodded in agreement by accident.

“She continued: ‘I want you to consider this though.’ She walked up to me.  Even though it was midsummer, I was wearing a long-sleeved shirt.  I’m not sure if that’s what gave me away or it if was in my file.  She yanked one of the sleeves far enough to reveal the cuts I had made the night before.  My scars are my property to reveal on my terms.  I shoved her back, sending her to the ground, before ripping the sleeve back down.  From the floor she said, ‘If you truly believe that you’re in control, then why are you doing that to yourself?’

“I’m not sure I had ever been so angry in my entire life.  I stomped over to her desk, hoping to find a penknife, or a letter opener, or anything sharp really.  I just needed something to hurt her.  To cut her open with.  She said, ‘You have two choices here.  The wrong choice is that you quit.  You’ll come to my sessions and act out and waste our time.  You’re not my first rodeo and won’t be my last.  I can handle you until you get too old for the system.  After that, you’ll probably find yourself in jail, because you can’t function in society.’

“‘And what’s the other option?  Let god into my heart?’

“She laughed.  ‘Learn how to play the game, hun.  You’ll stay out of trouble.  You’ll get all the things you want.  You’ll stop feeling like the only way to be in control is to mangle yourself.’

“It only took me a few weeks to come around.  The way she manipulated her superiors was <i>art</i>.  They effortlessly swallowed her egregious lies.  And she did it without a single hitch.  No repercussions.  No punishments.  All the rewards gained with such little effort.  I’ll admit it; I was envious.  The thing was, I hated the idea of asking her to tell me how she worked her magic.

“One day, I finally caved and asked, ‘What do you get out of helping me?’  And you know what she said?   ‘A guaranteed, six-figure salary, because no one else gets results out of you dumbasses.’  I laughed my head off.  I started listening to her after that.  Once she taught me the rules, everything started falling into place.  You know how well I turned out.”

The flashlight went dark.  He shook it, and, for a moment, there was one last glimmer of light.  After that, no amount of shaking or tapping on the end would bring it back to life.  I could barely see him now.  He tossed the flashlight aside and motioned for me to stop walking.  Wordlessly, he sat down on the disk sled.  Unzipped my duffle bag and pulled out a pack of Crossroads.  Opened it.  Lit one.  The flash of the lighter’s orange flame illuminated his face like a jack-o-lantern.

The glowing end of the cigarette quivered as he breathed through it.  “Are you going to ask?”

“About what?”

“What the rules were.”

“Aren’t they psychopath trade secrets?”

He rolled his eyes.  “I guess it’s mostly common-sense things to be honest.  Plan your persona in advance.  Don’t tell lies that can be easily refuted.  Politeness and feigned interest are your primary weapons.  The hard one for me was stay away from drugs.  Cigarettes are fine, obviously, since they don’t mess with how you think.”  He taped the filter end of the cigarette on his temple.

“But you be careful alcohol and stay away from the party drugs.  Keeping your persona up, means always staying at the top of your game.  It gets pretty exhausting to be honest.  There’s a ‘why I bother’ list I keep in my wallet.  I pull it out when I start getting too impulsive to remind myself why I go through all the trouble.  It used to keep me in line.  I suppose it still does, just not when it comes to you.”

In a deadpan tone, I said, “I’m honored to be so special.”

He shook with silent laughter.  “You should be.  Very few people get it like you do.”

“Get what?”

“You know.”

Truthfully, I had no idea what he meant.  I stood awkwardly in place while he finished his cigarette.  After he flicked away the butt, he stood up.  Taking hold of the hose, he said, “I think we’ll get to the road faster if I help.”

I saw no reason to discourage him, so we started pulling that hunk of scrap metal together.  A part of me preferred it when he was the only one ploughing through the snow to make the path, but it did seem like we were progressing faster.  That meant we would get to the road faster.  Maybe the road would be ploughed.  Heck, maybe the plough would be actively working on the road.  We could hitch a ride back to civilization.

Sure, there was still the alternative that we were heading in an entirely wrong direction.  That we were getting ourselves lost in the Canadian wilderness.  Some poor, lost soul would discover our frost-preserved bodies during a summer thaw sometime in the next few decades.  That possibility felt shallow though.  After hearing his story, I did not have any more mental space for tragedy.

The little details of what he said kept boomeranging back into my thoughts though.  Half-imagined ethereal images of the moments he described.  Too many cross connections and parallels.  I needed it to stop.  “Uh, hey?”

“Mhm?”

“It wasn’t pity.”

He gave me a blank look.

“Before.  When I said ‘I’m sorry.’  I meant that I was sorry for calling you a liar.  I don’t feel any pity for you.  It’s more like… I’m not saying I get everything you went through, but I know what it’s like to not trust the people you’re supposed to be able to rely on.  I know the anger of being powerless to stop someone who has control over you.”

He smirked.  “What do you want me to say to that, hun?”

“Nothing.  I know you don’t care how I feel.  But, whatever drove you to tell me all of that, you made a big deal about wanting me to listen.  I did.  I’m proving it.”

“That’s…” his expression went blank again.  “I understand.”

“I don’t think you do, but that’s—”

“SHIT.”

Suddenly, he disappeared downwards.  His arms wrapped around my leg, and I crashed to the ground.  I kept sliding under the snow as I flailed around for anything I could grab onto.  My hand caught the disk sled.  That stopped me long enough for my leg to catch Switch’s entire weight.  I could not carry that much on a few fingers.  I let go.  A moment later, we both hit the hard ground in a piled heap.

He gave a strangled squeal and elbowed me hard in the stomach, knocking the wind out of me.  While I struggled to get my breath back, he shoved me away.  He curled into himself, chanting swears.  Even oxygen deprived, I had my wits about me enough to look up.  We had fallen into a sink hole or something.  Though I could not see it, I knew Alpine was perched precariously on the edge above us.  If that two-hundred-pound behemoth fell on Switch, that would be it.

Wheezing, I got to my knees.  Talking was not happening.  I got him by the shoulders of his vest and yanked him away from the hole above.  He whirled around to take another swing at me, but I was ready this time.  I grabbed his arm and kept pulling him back.  He screamed death threats.  When I thought he was out of harm’s way, I scampered into the darkness to fully regain my breath.

His rabid stream of threats faded into mumbling.  Then a quiet whimpering.  Then silence.  Alpine remained in place above the sink hole.  I willed it to fall in so I could justify dragging him out of the way.  Telekinesis was never my strong suit though.

I sighed.  “I’m going to ask a stupid question: are you okay?”

“GRAND.”

“At least you’re not dead.”

“No thanks to you.”

“Look, I was worried Alpine was going to fall through after us and turn you into a pancake.  I know I hurt you, and I’m—”

“I didn’t see Alpine fall through.  Did you see it fall through?”

“Just tell me where you’re hurt, okay?”

He took a concerningly long pause to consider that question.  “I think I just twisted my ankle.”

“That was… a lot of swearing for a twisted ankle.”

As I spoke, he stumbled to his feet.  “I’m fine now, see?”  He took half a step and collapsed to the ground with a hiss.

“Okay.  Can you rest for a bit while I…?” I scanned the area.  “Stumble aimlessly around in the dark…  Maybe I’ll luck into a way out.”

“Are you feeling lucky?”

“Don’t make me answer that.”
