My squinted eyes quivered between barely open and closed.  The setting sun glinted off the raised, metal letters on the hotel sign, blinding me.  Through the rolled down window, I heard the occasional bursts of crickets, hiding in the darker corners of the messy hedges bordering the parking lot.  The cool, dry breeze tinged with the oil from the thousands of cars that raced over the nearby interstate every day.  He was inside doing check-in.  I was trying to come to terms with the idea of sleeping in the same room with him.  Though, that assumed he intended to sleep instead of chatter at me all night.

A twinge of pain shot through my stiff legs, so I opened the door and got out to stretch.  While I was at it, I decided to remove our luggage from the back seats.  First, I slung my duffle bag over my shoulder.  Then I went around to the other side of the car for his suitcase.  It was so heavy that he must have packed for a one-month vacation in Europe rather than a short conference trip.

Before I shut the door, a speckle of sunlight drew my attention to something on the floor behind his seat.  A four-pack of some artisanal beer I did not recognize.  Whatever it was, it was higher quality than the cheap swill I had been drinking in the hope of scratching the itch while turning myself off the habit in the future.  The four-pack was also higher proof.

“I see you found my little surprise for you.”  He stepped to my side to pick up the pack.  “Thanks for getting my suitcase by the way.”  Without grabbing his bag, he turned back to the hotel.

“Don’t you want your cigarettes?”

“Maybe later.  You don’t want me to smoke in the room, though.  There’s no point in bringing them up.”

I closed the car door and followed him with our luggage.  We took the elevator up to the fourth floor.  Our room was just down the hall.  He unlocked the door and walked in.  I stood at the entrance, staring at the number plate.  Room 403.  My old duffle bag sagged down my shoulder and dropped to the ground.

He shooed my fingers from the handle of his suitcase and rolled it inside.  In my peripheral vision, I saw him lay the suitcase down to open it.  Set his pajamas on the bed by the door to claim it.  Search the room for the tv remote.  It was on a lounge chair by a circular table in the corner.

After tossing the remote onto his bed, he returned to me to get my duffle bag.  He deposited it on the far bed.  Humming, he set the alarm on the side table.  Finally, he opened the tv cabinet.  With the scene set to perfection, he sat on the edge of his bed, watching me with a hollow, congenial smile.

My burning need to validate reality crushed the little voice warning me that there was nothing he wanted more than for me to ask.  “You picked this room on purpose.”  So much for asking.

“I did.  I thought it would make you feel more at home.”

“Is that also why you brought the booze?”

“Do you really want me to answer that?”

As I crossed my arms tightly, my shoulders creeped up.  “No.”

“Go at your own pace.”  He laid back on the bed, where he could not see me.  “Though, honestly, at least come inside.  If anyone walks down that hall, you’re going to make them uncomfortable.”

I shuffled past the threshold, closed the door, and sat down.

He huffed.  “You’re up against the door, aren’t you?”

I said nothing.

“Sometimes, you can be so dramatic.”  He hopped off the bed and dug around in his suitcase.  After he retrieved whatever-it-was he was looking for, he went to the round table.  The four-pack had ended up there.  He pulled one out and popped the cap with a bottle opener, giving it an appraising sniff.  As he wandered over to me, he said, “Beer was never really my thing, but this smells pretty good.  I think I picked well, even if I do say so myself.”  He placed the bottle next to me.

“What, do you think I’ll be more fun if I get myself drunk?”

“No.  Well, maybe.  But one little bottle isn’t enough to get you drunk, is it?  I just thought it might mellow you out a bit.  You really should try to relax.  Being so anxious all the time can’t be good for your heart.”

“Are you going to stand there staring at me until I chug it?”

He considered it.  “No, I think I’d rather watch tv, to be honest.  Whether you drink it or not is on you.”  True to his word, he went back to the bed, grabbed the remote, and began channel surfing.

His focus was the tv, but the bottle fixated on me.  Days, weeks, months of relapse had retrained my body to expect alcohol at the end of the day.  It was silly of me to have thought that some good could come from this trip in the form of breaking the cycle.  Plus, he was right; it would mellow me out.  With that, I talked myself out of resisting.

The bottle was more than half empty when he said, “You know, unless you intend to sleep on the floor tonight, you probably should get used to the idea of being in the bed next to mine.  I imagine you’re going to struggle to sleep otherwise.”

He was not wrong.  I rose to my feet and dragged myself to the far bed.  Sitting crossed legged with the bottle in my lap and my arms down prevented him from seeing it.  I did not want him to know how fast I was drinking.  Maybe that was an impossible goal.  Even if he was watching his program, he probably noticed that, after two sips, I was faking it.  The bottle was empty.

An hour of that passed before he stretched his arms over his head.  “I’m feeling restless and a little stiff.  I think a walk around the hotel would do me some good.  Maybe I’ll grab some snacks.  Can I get you anything?”

“N-no.  Thanks.  I’m good.”  I was surprised he did not invite me to go with him.

He tossed me the remote.  “I’ll see you in a little bit then.”

When the door clicked shut, I picked up the remote, but my eyes wandered to the round table.  I grimaced, realizing why he had left me alone.  He had sensed that his presence was a deterrent to my drinking.  Clearly, he was desperate to get me wasted.  Unfortunately, a big part of me wanted the same.  I was already one in the hole, so what difference would a second one make?

After I found a mesh trashcan to drop the first bottle into, I cracked open a second.  I changed the channel to news and turned down the volume.  That was all I wanted: the quiet sound of voices.  Not the content.  With no one to talk to and nothing else to distract me, the second bottle did not last long.  It hit me harder and faster than what I normally drank.  As I tried to place the bottle in the trashcan, it slipped out of my hand.  It landed with the cheery clinking of glass on glass, as if the two bottles were saying cheers to one another.

I wrapped my hand around the neck of the third bottle.  Okay.  This was where it had to stop.  I opened the third and fourth bottles and carried them to the bathroom.  I put the third one down on the counter and started pouring the fourth down the drain.  It was easy to do, since I had promised myself the third as a reward for emptying the fourth.  Near future me would curse current me, but distant future me would be proud.  Or maybe “understanding” was the more accurate word.

“Must you?”

How he snuck in without me hearing the door open and shut, I will never know, but he scared the shit out of me.  I dropped the fourth bottle in the sink and knocked the still full third bottle off the counter.  It shattered on the tile floor.

A breathless whisper.  “Goddamn it.”

“Oh dear.”  He flitted out of sight for a moment and came back with the trash can.  I was already on my knees, carefully collecting the largest fragments of glass.  “Careful, you don’t want to cut yourself.”

I dropped the shards into the trashcan without acknowledging him.  Next, I set to work on picking up the smallest pieces, sliver by sliver.  He hovered over me, occasionally pointing out a sparkle of glass I had missed.  One of the pieces he pointed out nicked me on its way to the trash.  I rubbed the single drop of blood off the tip of my finger.  When we both saw nothing more, I tossed a towel onto the spilled beer to soak it up.

He held the fourth bottle out to me.  “There’s still a little bit left.”  Without hesitation, I downed the remnants of the bottle and dropped it into the trash can.  He chuckled.  “When the urge hits you again, I’m more than happy to get you a few more.  Just don’t dump anything else I buy for you down the sink, okay?”

“Fuck.  You.”

“Excuse you!  There’s no need for that language.  I’m trying to be helpful.  I’m just asking that you respect—"

“All you want is for me to destroy myself!  Since day one, all you’ve done is isolate me, humiliate me, hurt me, drive me absolutely insane!”

My eyes locked onto his.  At first, his pupils were small and still.  They flared as he said, “That’s… not exactly what I want.”

“Then what the hell <i>do</i> you want!?”

“I believe we talked about this at my place, when—”

“Christ, stop it!  Stop talking like that!”

He dropped the trashcan, stepped into my space, and switched to monotone.  “That sounds like an invitation.  I’m ready if you are.”

My knees gave.  He grabbed me by the shoulders on the way down.  I punched his guts but was too dizzy to put any force into it.  He grabbed me by the hair and pinned my face on the edge of the tub.
“Try that again, and I’ll give it back tenfold!”

I whimpered, willing my vision to not go black.  He took that as a signal of compliance and started dragging me out of the bathroom.  I flailed with both hands for anything I could get hold of.  My left hand found the trashcan, knocking it onto its side.  I reached in, taking the first shard of glass I found.  It bit into my skin, but I held tight.  He had me in the hall now.  I whirled around to kick at his leg.  Instantly, I was free.  Down on one knee, he grabbed at his leg.  I tackled him flat.  Kneeled on his stomach.  Ripped his skull back by the hair to expose his neck.  Put glass to throat.  Pressed down.

I froze.

We stared at one another, both panting.  His eyes were nothing but black circles blurred by my anger, tears, and the stress static.  He swallowed and went limp.  Whatever stupid thing I did next, he was not going to fight.

A drop of red swept down his neck.  Then three more.  My blood.  My shaking hand held the glass fragment in a death grip.  It hurt.  The pain brought me back to physical reality.  Made me fully recognize what I was positioned to do.

I let go of him.  Trembling, I crawled off him.  I hunched up against a wall and tentatively opened my left hand.  It was soaked in red.  I wanted to take the glass out, but touching it hurt.  It had embedded itself deep in my palm.

Meanwhile, he shakily sat up.  He watched me horrify myself as I tried and failed to remove the glass.  He reached out slowly.  I was so sure he was going to hurt me worse, but his approach paralyzed me.  Cautiously, he took hold of the glass.  He plucked it out in one swift motion.  I swore, and the blood gushed out faster for a moment, but the deed was done.

Sliding up the wall on my way to my feet, I put pressure on the wound.  I stumbled into the bathroom.  Turned on the faucet.  Let the water sweep the blood away, sweep <i>me</i> away, drop by drop, cell by cell.  The bleeding had to stop soon.

Behind me, he righted the trashcan and dropped the bloody fragment into it.  He carried it out of the bathroom and closed the door on me.  The muffled tv noises increased in volume.  Quick flips between channels.  A laugh track.  He stuck with whatever sitcom it was.

The bleeding finally slowed, and I wrapped a scratchy, pristine white hand towel around my hand.  I sat down on the edge of the tub with my feet on the alcohol-soaked towel, rocking back and forth.  At the sound of him getting up, I stilled.  Digging through his luggage.  Walking to the bathroom door.  Opening it.

He stayed in the hallway but held something out for me.  My shaking right hand took it.  A small roll of gauze.  How in the hell could he have been prepared for something like this?  He closed the door.  I locked it.
