The sink hole, or cave, or whatever it was we had fallen into, was small.  No more than 40 feet in length, 5 in width and between 10 and 15 in depth depending on where I looked.  The frozen mud walls were not smooth, but none of the features made for good hand holds.  The surface was too hard to dig into.

As the hours passed, it grew lighter.  I could see the meshwork bridge of snow and fallen branches covering the gap between the two sides of the crevasse.  While exploring the walls, I discovered a large fallen pine branch.  It was long enough to disrupt the snow bridge.  He swore at me for sending the snow tumbling down on us, but it gave us a full view of the sky.  More importantly, it helped me find the region of the hole where the height difference between the world above and our ground was the smallest.

I spent more than a few minutes jumping in front of that spot trying to reach the upper edge.  My efforts ceased when he reminded me that the definition of insanity was repeating the same thing and expecting different results.  Also, my stomach was grumbling and wasting energy seemed like a bad idea.  I kicked the snow away to create a clear patch and settled down to rest.

“Are you ready for me to tell you the solution, or do you want to keep spinning your wheels?”  His tone was strange.  Somewhere between his usual singsong and the new, matter-of-fact voice.

“I’m out of ideas.”

“If you let me stand on your shoulders, I can reach the top.”

“How exactly does that end with <i>both</i> of us out?”

He pointed at the bit of hose dangling off the disk sled.  “If I sit on Alpine, there’s going to be well over 300 pounds holding the hose in place.  What do you weight?  15 pounds?  You’ll be able to climb out without making a pancake of yourself.”

“How about you let me stand on your shoulders.”

He gave a sardonic smile.  “On my bad leg?”  Before I could argue, he said, “It’s about time you trusted me.”

“You know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that I will not leave you behind.”

“And?  I can’t hold your weight up.  So, either you trust me, or we freeze to death.  And, just so you know, I will not be the one who dies first.  I also have no qualms about fucking and eating your corpse.”

“Why the—?!"  I was not sure where that statement stood in the space between inappropriate humor and fact.  “You’re not helping.”

“I’m motivating you.”

“No.  You’re not.”

I stood up and paced the perimeter of the sink hole again.  Maybe it was midmorning.  Maybe it was noon.  Maybe we only had a few hours of daylight left.  His plan was the only one we had.  Defeated, I wandered back to him.

With my eyes squeezed painfully shut, I said, “It doesn’t matter if I trust you or not.  We have no other options.”

“Great.”  His tone was annoyed rather than pleased.  He climbed to his feet.  I followed as he hobbled to the spot I had been jumping at.  “Kneel down.”

I did as he asked.  He tried to step onto my shoulder with his bad leg, but he could not lift off it.  Bracing with both hands on the wall, he struggled to put any weight on the bad leg long enough to get his good one on top of me.  He gave a frustrated huff, tapping the forehead of his helmet on the wall.  

A new strategy came to him.  He pushed me down flatter, kneeled on my back, then shakily rose to standing position.  He started edging forward to my shoulders, grinding the heel of his good leg into my back.  Even through my ski jacket, it hurt.

He panted, “You need to start getting up.  Slowly.”

I nodded.  Carefully, I pushed myself back up into kneeling position.  He gave a little hop to get on the top surface of my shoulders, throwing off his balance.  My hands shot up to help stabilize him, and I nearly crumpled.  Somehow, we held long enough for him to regain his balance and for me to get my hands on the ground again.

“I’m not high enough yet.”

I looked up.  He was already reaching for the edge.  I was going to have to stand to close the last few feet, but it did look like he would be able to climb out.  I put my hands on the wall and walked them up as I strained to get onto my feet.  His hands were also walking as he tried to stabilize all his weight on that one leg on my unsteady shoulder.  We must have looked like some awkward six-legged animal, slithering out of its den.

In the end, I reached standing position.  My shoulder was screaming at me, but we did it.  I was preparing to boost him the extra inch I could get by standing on my toes when he said, “I got it!”  For a moment, the weight subsided.  Then it came right back down.  “Push me up.”

“O-okay.”  I huffed from exhaustion.  “I’m going to drop out, so I can get hands under your foot.”

“Be quick.  And the left one!  The right one is the bad one.”

I mumbled, “I can tell.”  With a deep breath, I centered myself.  I bowed out from under him, kneeled slightly, positioned my hands, and shot up to give him some extra momentum.  He scraped around wildly.  Something took.  His elbows straddled over the edge as heavy snow came barreling down into my face.  I back peddled, wiping the ice away.  When I got a clean look again, I saw his legs flailing in the air and he swum into the upper snowbank.

My posture drooped.  At least <i>he</i> was out.  I watched his feet disappear into the upper world.  The crunching of his trek through the snow told me where he was.  Slowly, he dragged himself over to Alpine with an unbalanced stride. 

Following his path, I came to the hose and limply grasped it.  “I’m ready.  Tell me when you are.”  The hose jerked out of my hands as the sled jumped back from the ledge.  It was out of reach now.  I swallowed down my horror.  “What are you doing?”

A roar of cascading snow as he dragged the sled further way.

“You… You’re moving it to the other spot, right?  You told me to trust you.  You’re moving it so that it will be easier for me to get out, RIGHT!?”

An intermittent, crumbling hiss as he dragged Alpine away in little bursts in time with his limp.  A hiss that was quieting.

“You fucking piece of shit!  You cannot be fucking serious!”  Pointlessly, I slammed my fist against the wall.  “Rot in fucking hell, you fucking prick!  FUCK!”  I crouched down, continuing my useless barrage of swears and insults until the words jumbled together into tear-stained mush.  The sobbing and coughing interrupted my breath, stopping the words from tumbling out.  The last idea I choked on was, “I knew you were going to do this.  I knew it.”

I have no idea how long I laid there crying.  I am even less sure how long I sat there in silence when the tears dried up.  The sun made a substantial arc across the sky though.  How exactly does one come to terms with the reality of dying?  This was not a diagnosis of cancer, where the victim has at least weeks if not years to consider what life meant and what death will mean.  This was not the sudden pulling of a cord characteristic of so many other deaths, which leaves no time nor need for consideration.

I would have exactly enough time to feel the full extent of the existential horror that I was going to die young, alone, and forgotten and none of the time to accept it.  Watching my body decay into frostbite black inch by inch.  Seeing my tears crystalize into shimmering orbs.  Feeling the rush in my veins slow to a halt as my heart stopped beating.  There had to be a way to end it faster.

I checked my pockets.  Nothing.  I quick walked the perimeter.  Nothing.  I picked up the pine branch, hoping some part of it would be suitable for making a spear.  An image of stabbing myself in the chest, blood oozing out in thick soupy waves, coating the white snow trampled under my feet.  My empty stomach somersaulted.  I dropped the branch.  I dropped to my knees.  I dropped all hope that I would have the will to end it sooner.

Quiet crunching.  I shot back to my feet and ran to the edge where Alpine had been.  The limping crunch growing louder.  It was real.  The sound was not some phantom hallucination.  I wanted to call out, make him announce himself, but my voice was gone.  He was just out of sight now.  The thought “what if it’s a bear” emerged from my despair-addled mind, but I shoved it down.  Bears did not limp on two feet.  It was HIM.  It had to be.

When the orange and red helmet peaked over the edge, I almost collapsed with relief.

He said, “Hey.”

“You came back.”

He laughed silently.  “I told you to trust me.  Though, I do wish you hadn’t said all those mean things.”

“I’m sorry, I’m sorry!  You left.  You wouldn’t say anything.  What was I supposed to think?”

He shushed me, and I complied.  Carefully, he sat down on the edge, angling his bad leg so it would bear none of his weight.  His fingers tapped out a rhythm on his knee.  My heart sank.  The tapping paused just long enough for him to pull the helmet off.  He looked down at me like a king overseeing his domain.

I whispered, “What do you want in exchange?”

A well-practiced, empty smile that faded as quickly as it appeared.  He slipped fully into matter-of-fact mode.  “I need you to say, ‘yes.’”

“To what?”

“No, no, no.  You don’t understand.  Say ‘yes.’  I promise I only want one thing.  Look in my eyes; I mean it.  You do the one thing I want, and we both walk out of here.  But you have to say ‘yes.’  You have to do it.”

Agree or die.  Weakly, I said, “Yes.”

“No.  Look at me and say ’<i>Yes</i>.’”

I swallowed.  The memory of the words <i>I need you to want it</i> drifted through my thoughts.  My fists tightened, my brows knitted, my shoulders hunched so far up it hurt.  And then my whole body relaxed.  I looked him in the eyes and said, “Swear you’ll get me out, and I’ll do whatever it is you want me to do.”

“Done.  Help me down.”

He was already crawling back over the edge.  When he was freely dangling, his good leg straight and his bad one crooked up, I grabbed him by the waist and helped him land without hurting himself further.  He eased into sitting position and waved for me to do the same.  His right glove came off, so mine did too.  A pack of Crossroads came out of his vest pocket.  After he pulled one out for himself, he offered the pack to me.  I took one without hesitation.  Next came the gold lighter.  He lit his cigarette and took the first drag.  His attention refocused on me.  I held my cigarette out for him to light.

He shook his head.  “You’re not holding it right.”  I had the Crossroads between the tips of my pointer and middle finger.  He moved it between my middle and ringer finger and up to joints.  The way he held his.  He pushed my hand, the cigarette, to my mouth.  He lit it from there.  I noticed for the first time that there was a design on the lighter.  A snake twining through a skull.  “Breathe in lightly.  I’m assuming this is your first.”

“Ignoring your secondhand smoke.”  A silent laugh shook his form as I took my first hit.  It brought an incredible feeling of heat into my lungs.  They only gave the slightest tremble when I exhaled.

“How is it?”

“Good.  Warm.”

“I told you.  Try to hold onto that feeling.  You’re going to get a little chilly.”

“Why.”

“Take off your jacket.”

“You can’t be serious.”

“This is what I want.  Take it off.”

“You can’t seriously expect me to fuck you.”

His face contorted in disgust.  “No.”  He waved his cigarette around, gesturing at nothing in particular.  “It’s cold.  Why would I want that right now?  I swear, hun, sometimes it’s like you think I’m stupid.”

“What else would you want?”

“Take.  It.  Off.”

“Tell me why.”

“You know why!”

“No.  I don’t.”

A garbled scream of frustration.  After one hard drag on his cigarette, he ripped open his left cufflink so fast that the button popped off.  He pulled his sleeve all the way up to reveal his burns.  He snarled, “<i>Every scar on my body had a twin on his.</i>”

My gaze darted between his frothing, rabid expression and the scars.  One of my particularly stupid neurons sparked up the response, <i>I’ll have sex with you before I do that</i>.

“Do you get it now!?”

I reoriented towards the lighter.  It was sitting on his lap.  Metallic.  Sharp corners.  It looked so heavy.

“DO YOU UNDERSTAND!?”

I grabbed for the lighter.  He grabbed my arm and tried to pull me to the ground.  I let him.  I rolled.  He stopped me from getting on top.  While we struggled on our sides, I stomped his stomach, knocking the wind out of him.  He curled up like a pill bug, but I straightened him back out.  Just for the hell of it, I punched him in the guts again.

I almost laughed.  Sure, this punk knew how to throw a good surprise punch, but I guess street fighting is not a skill one picks up while sifting through the bargain bins at designer stores.  In hindsight, I wish I had remembered that his dad used to beat him.  Until he made it stop.

He grabbed my nose, kinked it upwards, and punched my throat.  While I grabbed for my neck, he threw me off.  Spun me around and jammed his elbow into my spine.  I arched up like lighting had struck me.      He slammed my shoulder to the ground.  I rolled into it and upper cut his jaw with my elbow.  He fell back dazed.  We exchanged a few more weak blows before ending up flat on our backs, struggling to breathe.

I had the lighter though.  My dull eyes met his black ones.  Both of us panting.  Both of us in pain.  Both of us mentally eviscerating the other.  Goddamn it I could see Alex in him.  I could see <i>me</i> in him.  That just made me angrier.

I forced myself back onto my knees.  He lifted his arms to defend himself, but I slammed the lighter into his wrist and both his arms retracted to cradle the new injury.  The weight of that fire box felt so good.  I flipped him onto his stomach and sat on top of him.  There was no way he could retaliate now.

I raised the lighter over my head.  I could all but taste the blood.  Feel the slick fat of his brain as would I hammer his consciousness out of existence.  Squelch the dark flame in his eyes and heart.  End this blight on humanity.

He laughed.  That raucous, uncontrolled frenzy I first heard that morning at the hotel.  His eyes were tearing up.  The rumbling in his chest was shaking my body like I weighed nothing.  He lost his breath in his mirth and gave to coughing.

“What!  The Fuck!  Is so Funny!?”

Between bouts of hacking, he blurted out, “Do it!”

The fight in me chilled.  I could not comprehend those two words.

Through a tinny giggle, he repeated, “Do it.”

My arm dropped.

He glanced back at me and fell into another round of laughing and coughing.  “Mercy!  Can’t breathe!”  It bubbled out of him like he was begging a master comedian to stop.  I crept off him and sat on the cold ground, my knees tucked under my chin.

When he finally regained control of himself, he wore the stupidest smile.  With the grace of a cat, he sat up and slunk closer to me.  “That’s the problem with you, hun.”

I allowed him the victory of eye contact.  Whatever his pupils looked like, it did not register with me.

“You want me dead so bad, but you just can’t do it.  You couldn’t do it in the hotel.  You can’t do it here.  As for me…?”

He threw himself on me.  Pinned me down.  Fingers tight around my throat.  I clawed at his hands to get him to let go.  I barely heard him say, “I could so easily end you.  Without a thought.”  He released me.  I gasped for breath.  “But I don’t want to.  In fact, I want to let you in on a secret.  I’m giving up ammunition in telling you, so you’d better appreciate it.   I’m not going to leave you.  I never planned to.  And I’m not going to hurt you anymore than you hurt me.”

He pulled me back into sitting position.  After taking a moment to examine the bruise on his wrist, the scratches on his hands, he leaned on me.  “You know what I love about you?”

“Winning.”

He giggled out, “Don’t make me laugh, my whole body aches.”  He waited for his mirth to subside then shook his head.  “No.  You are endless validation.  You are the loser I would have been if I hadn’t gotten my life together.  I work so hard to be this person for everyone, and I hate so much of the work, but looking at you, I know why I do it.  Otherwise, I’d be you.”  He closed his eyes.  “You know I like to hurt myself.  Watching you hang yourself in every social interaction tastes so sweet.  It scratches the itch.  You fall off the wagon for both of us.”

In the fray, we had lost the cigarettes.  One was gone, but the ember of the other still smoldered over the snow.  He picked it up.  Took a hit.  Passed it to me.  I knew better than to refuse.
After I exhaled my share of cherry smoke, he said, “We do this, or we die here.  I don’t care either way.  You do.”

“I can’t hurt myself.”

“Yes, you can.  You do it every day.  Just not physically.  I’ll help you start.”

Fine.  Okay.  Sure.  Whatever.  I weakly shoved for him to get off me.  He took the Crossroads and complied.  I peeled off my left glove and the left half of my ski jacket.  It took some effort to pull back all three layers of shirts to reveal my arm, but I managed.  I held it out to him.

He lined up the cigarette above my wrist.  “Just push down.  I’ll hold it for the right length of time.”

Trying not to think, I clumsily put my hand over his.  I think he took pity on me for that first one.  My fingers barely contacted his skin before the burning pain shot through my arm.  I muttered weak swears until he released.  The cold air immediately cooled the burn.

I panted, “Done.”

“Two more.”  He moved the cigarette up to the middle of my arm.  I swallowed a whine.  The second time, he waited for me to push the barest edge of white-hot ash to my skin.  The smell of burning flesh, <i>my</i> burned flesh, made my head spin.

He positioned the cigarette over the final spot.  “This one’s on you.  Do it for real.”

I ran my hand down my face.  <i>Bite the bullet</i>.  <i>Bite the bullet</i>.  <i>Bite the bullet</i>.  I slapped his hand down like I was crushing a mosquito.  The cigarette dragged across my skin.  The second he released me, I smashed handful after handful of snow onto the burns, numbing my arm completely.

He allowed me that panicked relief, but when I reached up to pull my sleeve down, he stopped me.  His left arm appeared next to mine.  His scars and my burns aligned perfectly.  The only difference was I had a jagged streak for my top one while his were all pristine circles.  He pulled his sleeve back down.  My cue to do the same.

While I zipped up my jacket, he asked, “How does it feel?”

“Like I just dragged my arm through a furnace and then dunked it in ice water, why?”

“You know what I mean.  What do <i>you</i> feel?”

Without hesitation, I said, “Absolutely nothing.”

“Exactly.”

He got up and hobbled to the shallowest end of the sink hole.  I joined him.  We recreated the process of getting him out of the trench.  The first attempt failed.  He toppled over into a pile of indignant swearing.  The second attempt went smoothly.  As promised, he dragged Alpine to where I was standing.  He sat on the sled as originally planned.  Somehow, I pulled my miserable, aching body out of that pit.

Laying in the bank of snow felt like falling into a bed of cotton and marshmallows.  It was heaven.  I wanted to fall asleep there.  Give up.  He snapped his fingers to get my attention.  I glanced over to find he was wearing his helmet again.   I gave him my best pathetic expression.

He pointed in the direction of his tracks.  “Get up.  The road is only 100 feet that way, and I—”

“YOU FOUND THE ROAD.”  I shot to my feet.  “For real?!  It’s there?!!”

He shrugged.  “Why would I bother getting you out of the hole if I hadn’t?”

Who cared that his logic was bullshit?  He found the road!  At least assuming he was telling the truth, but I had no time or patience for pessimism.  Today was the worst day ever.  I had used up enough bad karma for ten lifetimes.  A chance at living was ahead of me.  I even started dragging Alpine down the path he had made without being asked.  With his limp slowing him down, I charged ahead of him.

And in the bright sunlight, I saw it.  The road.  Plowed.  Even the tip of a drowning yellow sign cautioning about some unknown peril peaked out from the snowbank.  The road was unquestionably there.  I would have wept if there were any tears left in me.

When I reached it, I dropped the hose and plopped onto the ground.  I pawed at the compacted snow until I revealed concrete.  A dizzy relief washed over me.  I flopped on my side giggling with nervous excitement.  I rolled back and forth like a dog on the first day of winter.

“You done?”  He stood over me.

I pointed up unsteadily at him and said, “Fuck you!” before falling back into giggling.

He waited with his hands on his hips for me to regain my composure.  With a kick at my side, he said, “Get up.  We can still die out here.”

Technically, he was right.  Fine.  I rose to my shaky feet, swaying.  He handed the hose to me and pointed down one end of the road.  Without complaint, I dragged the metal behemoth behind me.  After the initial euphoria waned, some of the fear crept back into me.  It motivated me to press on rather than crippling me though.  This was survivable.  I just had to hold out.

It did not take long for him to break the silence.  “I’m going to need to get a photo of it when we get back.”  I said nothing, but he clarified.  “My scars and your scars.”

I hummed a generic response.  That photo was not going to happen, but what would it hurt to let him pretend it would?

“I want to show Ryan.  He’s never going to believe me otherwise.  That’s going to be a breakup I’ll remember for the rest of my life.”

Before I could stop myself, I said, “Christ, you’re an idiot.”

Monotone.  “Excuse me.”

I was too tired to care.  “That poor man is in love with you.  You get that, right?  Hell, he’s even seen a little of the real you, and he still wants you.”

“Ryan is—”

“Dull.  Boring.  Stable.  Steady.  Without drama unless you make it.  Yeah.  I know.  That’s what a healthy relationship looks like, you fucking dumbass.  But please, show him.  In fact, for that, I’ll go with you to show him what you’ve done.  Make him leave you.  He deserves better than you.  And without him, you will die alone and in pain.  That’s exactly what you deserve.”

“That’s—”

“I think you have it in your head that you can keep me around forever, so you don’t need him.  What a joke!  I don’t know how much longer I’m going to have to suffer your existence, but it will not be forever.“

“I—”

“And after all of this?  Hell.  All the other shit I’ve been afraid to do, decided I can’t do, found excuses not to…  It’s nothing compared to the threat of reliving anther version of this with you.”

“We—”

“So yeah, you wanted honesty?  Have it.  You’re the most ignorant moron I have ever met!  You are terrifying, I absolutely hate you, and I will never forgive you.  So good job, ‘cause those mental scars are way worse than these!”  I held up my left arm, panting.

“N-noted.”

“So, let’s just get back to civilization.  Please.  And for the love of god, shut up.  Otherwise, I’m leaving this hunk of junk behind for you to pull.  Good luck trying.”  I stared straight at his visor, lips pulled back in a snarl.

Without responding, he limped past me down the road.  His mouth remained shut.  Even when we bumped into the nice couple driving a pick-up truck.  Even when we got to town.  Even when we checked in at the clinic, and the nurse asked for his name, he handed her his wallet.  In front of me, he did not say a word.
