We spent a couple of days in the hospital.  Or I did.  He needed an ankle brace and crutches but was otherwise fine.  My hand needed minor surgery to clean out the dead tissue.  Then, they stapled it together.  My one ear had mild frostbite.  They bandaged it up and told me to take the over-the-counter painkiller of my choice.  I got the same advice for my concussion.  They asked me about all the other bruises.  I said we were in a rough crash from the snow mobile.

I made it to the conference on the day of our presentation.  He took off the brace and hid his crutches.  I guess getting hurt does not look professional.  Giving my half looking like an invalid was fine by me.  Amazingly, Alpine booted.  The demo went as planned.  It even looked like the audience was receptive.  

When all was said and done, and the room emptied, he gave me a solid thump on the back.  “I think we did well.”  The first words he had spoken to me since the road.

He waited for a response.  When none came, he continued.  “I meant what I said before.  About your raise.  Only maybe it should be a promotion.  How will that make you feel?”

I took off my conference badge and laid it on top of Alpine.

“Will it be too awkward for you if I make Dave your subordinate?  You can both just be senior developers if you would prefer.”

I made my way to the entrance of the room.  He tried to hobble after, but without his crutches or brace, he had no chance of catching up.

“I could put Ryan under you instead.  I know you’d like that.  He’d have to be nice to you if you were his boss.”

I turned the lights off and shut him in the darkness.

After I left the conference hall, I went to the hotel room, grabbed my duffle bag, and caught a taxi to the airport.  By the next morning, I was back home.  And horrifically hung over.  Even though no one expected me at work, I went in.  I got a lot of stares.  A few concerned questions.  I shook my head in response.  My goal was Boss’s office.  I knocked.  He made the surprised small talk.  Showed concern about my hand.  Invited me inside.  I told him in brief terms:

“I’m putting in my two weeks.  If you want to avoid a lot of upset on the part of your rising protege, don’t tell anyone I quit.  He’s going to be very upset.  It’ll disrupt work if he knows I’m leaving before I’m gone.”

And then I sat through inevitable.  Obligatory demands for explanation were rebuffed.  Offers of better compensation to make me stay were turned down.  Speeches about duty and loyalty were listened to and disregarded.  Boss finally conceded.  In two weeks, I would be gone.  Boss had to get the order put through HR, but he would otherwise keep it under his hat.  No goodbye gifts or parties.

I left his office.  Most everyone had gone back to their tasks.  No clusters of gossips discussing my entrance.  No hushed whispers.  Just working people doing work.  When I got to my car, I heard steps hurrying behind me.  I considered getting in and driving off, but being rude for no reason was unfair.

“John.”

“Hey, Ryan.”

He opened his mouth to say something but seemed to have lost the words.  I waited.  The best he could muster was, “Are you okay?”

I sighed.  Without malice or revenge, with no desire to hurt him at all, I pulled up my left sleeve.  Ryan’s eyes fixed on the three band aids.  “I’m not handling him.  I wasn’t before.  I just thought I was.”

Ryan said nothing.

“Whatever game we were playing, he won.  I’m not sure he’s happy about it though.”

“What does that mean?”

I shrugged and got in my car.

In the next two weeks, I applied for jobs.  I even struck it lucky and got my first interview lined up.  It was in the same city, but that was okay.  It was a big city.  I would have to live in a less-than-ideal neighborhood further from downtown, but that was okay too.  This was a stepping-stone.

Eventually, I would move further south.  Or maybe west.  Maybe both.  For now, I had a new lease secured and paid the fees for canceling the contract on my current apartment.  Bit by bit, I acquired boxes and quietly packed up my things.  It was going to leave my checking account desperately empty, but I hired a moving company to sneak in and take everything to my new place at lunchtime on Wednesday.  My last day of work.  He would never know I was gone until I was gone.

At least I planned that courtesy for him.

On the Sunday before moveout, Switch and Ryan spent hours arguing.  There had been a lot of that since Switch got back from Alaska.  The only thing I found surprising about it was that Ryan kept going back to argue instead of cutting his losses.  Anyway, I was in the bedroom nook mumbling answers to practice interview questions, static on max volume to drown out the screaming.

When the pounding on my door started, I almost missed it.  Something in my static sounded too real.  I moved my headphones aside for a moment, and another assault on the door began.  With a sigh, the headphones came off the rest of the way, and I went to the door.  I knew I had to let him in.  He would escalate further if I kept him out.  I steeled myself through the next barrage of knocks.

Muffled from the hallway: “Tim, leave John alone!”

“He is <i>not</i> allowed to do this!”

As they screamed at each other, I relaxed.  Having Ryan here would keep things from getting too far out of control.  Hopefully.  I unlocked the door and turned the handle enough to prove it was open.  As I stepped back, Switch charged inside.  He grabbed me by the shoulders and shook me.

“What do you mean you quit!?”

“Come.  On.  Really?”  Ryan stood at the threshold looking furious with me.

I waved for him to come in.  When he refused, I said, “You know he’ll calm down faster if he gets to freak out at me.”

“He shouldn’t act like this at all!”

“Just come in, Ryan.”

Switch squealed, “STOP TALKING AROUND ME!”  He grabbed my face to make me look him in the eyes.  I glanced to the side.  “You’re staying.  You don’t get to walk out.”

I waved at the small pile of moving boxes in the corner.

“NO!”  Switch rushed over, grabbed the first one, ripped the tape off, and dumped it on the floor.

Exhausted, Ryan finally entered the apartment.  He whispered, “Is there anything fragile in there?”

“Nah.  I hid my dishes in boxes under the sink.”

Ryan blinked.

“I sort of prepared for this.”  Switch went to work tearing up the first box.  “Shit.  That I didn’t prepare for.  I don’t have extras…”

“Want me to front you a 20$?”

“Seriously?  No, it’s okay.”

Switch looked back at us.  “Why are you just standing there!  Put everything back!”

I shook my head.  “I’m moving.”

“Where!?”

“Away.”

He stormed up to me and grabbed me by the collar.  Ryan grabbed his wrist and pulled him off.  Switch struggled with Ryan for a moment, before turning back to me.  “You are not leaving.  You belong to me.”

Ryan whipped Switch back around, saying, “For fuck’s sake, no he doesn’t.  John is moving.  You’ve seen it.  You know it’s true.”

“NO!”

“Accept it!  He is bad for you!”

Under my breath, I mumbled, “Actually, <i>he’s</i> bad for everyone, but whatever.”

Ryan shot me a dirty look.  I shrugged.

Switch went still.  Recalibrating.  A cracked version of his smile played across his face.  “Fine.  Go somewhere else.  You think I won’t find you?  I will.  Move a hundred times.  I’ll always be there.  I will outlast you.”

Ryan hissed, “No, you won’t.”

Switch scoffed.

I guess Ryan reached the end of his rope there.  He turned Switch to face him again.  “If you go after John, I will leave you.”

“I KNEW YOU WOULD DO THIS!”  Switch shoved Ryan hard.  “I knew you would make me pick between you and him.  You said you wouldn’t, but I <i>knew</i> you were lying!”

“You’re not picking between me and him!  He doesn’t want you!  You’re picking between having me and not having me.”

“You can’t do that!”

“YES, I CAN!”  Ryan took several steps back.  He looked to the door, then back at Switch.  “I’m leaving.  Either you come with me, or we’re done.”  He headed for the exit before Switch could respond.

When Ryan reached the hall, Switch started shuffling in place, eyes darting between my feet and Ryan’s.  Raking his nails through his hair, he hissed at me, “We’re not done.  You’ll come crawling back, on your knees, begging for me.  <i>Nothing</i> will be right without <i>me</i>.”  He quick walked out the door after Ryan.


My jaw dropped.  He made the right choice.  How?  Why?  Questions for later.  I swayed for a moment but caught myself.  Shaking my head clear, I closed my door and locked it.

The mess Switch had made of my things caught the corner of my eye.  Three boxes emptied.  One destroyed.  At least I could repack two of them.  The dizziness finally took me down when I reached the massacred box.  That he could still do this to me made me disgusted with myself.  I laid there on my side, repacking my things until I felt good enough to sit up again.

After making myself a cup of coffee, I emailed Boss.  Told him some complications had come up with my hand, and I might be in and out of the hospital.  Could I do my last three days of work at home?  Boss gave me a brief, “Okay.”

Four months later, I was hanging out in a booth at a café I had found near my new job.  The coffee was okay, but what honestly kept me coming back was the barista.  She was cute and sweet.  Flirted with the customers a bit for tips.

A real relationship was out of the question for me at the time, but I liked having someone treat me nice even if it was fake.  It was normal fake.  Polite fake.  I had to make sure that I stayed okay with that kind of social engineering, because everyone does it.  Expecting people to be completely real all the time was unfair.  It was unhealthy.

There was a whoosh of air as the seat cushion across from me depressed.  I looked up from the window to see Ryan sitting down with a coffee and a blueberry scone.  My first thought was, “I don’t know what level to talk to you on.”  Instead, I said, “Uh, hey.”

“Hey.  I hope you don’t mind.”

“I mean…”  Shit, how real with him should I be?  “It’s freaking me out a little, to be honest, but if you want to <i>talk</i> talk.  Sure.  I don’t want to do small talk with you though.  I don’t think I’m angry with you anymore but — you probably had no idea I was angry.  Never mind, you know what I’m saying.”

“Close enough, I think.”  He took a sip of his coffee.  “Not intended as small talk, because I really am interested: how are you?”

“Uhhhh… Okay, I think.  I like my new job.  A few of my coworkers really clicked with me.  One of them has her own horror stories, so we can talk about stuff most people won’t touch.”  I considered mentioning that I earned my one-month chip a few days back, but that was probably too much information.

“I’m a little surprised you stayed in town.”

“It’s not for the long term.  One year, maybe two.  I’m saving up to go where I really want to be.”

Ryan nodded.

“He, uh… does he hang out on this side of town?”

“Tim ends up everywhere.  Though" — his eyes scanned the room — “this is not really his kind of place.  Not enough people.  Not enough going on.  Besides, I told him you have moved out of state.  He’s not looking for you.  It got everyone off my back about you.”

“Everyone?”

“They kind of freaked out.  You showing up with your cast and Tim with his brace.  And then you mysteriously disappeared two weeks later.  Clara was sure I knew something.  I told her you had some family stuff come up and moved to deal with it.  That’s the story now.”

My heart sped up at the mention of Clara.  “How’s she doing?”

Ryan’s eyes narrowed.  “You’re going to stay the fuck away from her.  Neither of us need you waltzing back into my life.”

“It has nothing to do with you.  Maybe you can't appreciate it, but you happen to be friends with a very attractive woman.”

"Actually, I can appreciate it, thanks."  Ryan took an indignant sip of his coffee.  I followed suit.  "The fact is, Clara is <i>my</i> friend, that's not changing.  If you try to date her, you're going to run into Tim and restart the dumpster fire.  Is that what you want?"

“N-no.”  I retreated further into my seat.  “It just would have been nice to have the chance.”

“You didn’t even know her.”

“I <i>wanted</i> to know her.”  Ryan filled the silence by munching on his scone.  “How exactly are things going with you?  With you being with <i>him</i>.  I kind of thought you would be done with it after his performance in my apartment.”

“He came with me.”  The way Ryan said it, it was like he was speaking about some sacred oath that had been protected.  “Things are better with you gone.  No offense.”

“None taken.”  With my best imploring face on, I cradled my coffee in my hands, close to my mouth, as if about to drink.  I knew better than to be direct.

Ryan huffed.  “John, if you want to know something just ask.”

“Sorry.  Most people… you know.”  I put the coffee back down.  “I just don’t get it.  I feel like only an idiot would want to deal with the real him.  You’re not an idiot.”

“So, ‘why do I like him?’  He’s real.  At least when you get past <i>Professional</i> Tim.  I don’t know what flavor of Personal Tim you got, but mine is easy going, playful, a little risky, and makes me laugh harder than anyone I’ve ever met.”

“That’s not really him though.”

Ryan mumbled, “It’s pretty close to Switch.  Just a little more restrained.”

“’Switch?’”

“Uh, yeah.”  Ryan fidgeted with his napkin.

“Pet name?”

“Sort of?”

“Good word.  My first thought about him was that he was an imposter.  Like he had <i>switched</i> with a real person.  Never mind what that word means in a punishment sense.  And, boy, if that doesn’t make me think of Dr. Jekyll and Mr.—”

“Get over yourself, would you?”

“Am I wrong?”

“It’s like a light switch.  On/Off.  That’s it.  You flip the switch, and you go from Fake Tim to Real Tim.  Switch is like… our anti-safeword, if that makes sense.  Except it’s not a sex thing.”

“Sounds like Mr. Hyde to me.”  Ryan responded with a disapproving hum.  “Sorry, I’m not trying to be an asshole.”

“Whatever.  I get it.  You two are a tornado together.”

“How do you deal with it?  The switch layer.  He doesn’t care about anything but himself.”

“It’s a little much when I’m upset, but the rest of the time it’s kind of refreshing.”

“How.”

“He knows what he wants and is straightforward about it with me.  He’s more than happy to negotiate trading things he wants for things I want.  He knows I’ll keep my end of the bargain.  And he knows what happens when he doesn’t keep his.  Again, if I’m upset, I really don’t need to hear that nothing I care about matters to him, but the rest of the time, that’s okay.  He cares about a lot of things I don’t care about.  All relationships are built on compromise.  We’re just a lot more businesslike about it.

“Actually, he got us one of those big notepads on an easel.  He hates that thing.  Blames me for it and says it makes his apartment look like a kindergarten classroom.  But <i>he</i> bought it.  We have a running list of promised services.  From dishes to emotional support.  Once you do a service, you cross it off.  He keeps track of what the balance is.

“He has this cycle he goes through now.  Suddenly, he decides he wants to have the upper hand.  He’ll do a bunch of things for me, so I’ll owe him.  I think his initial plan with that is to make me do bigger things for him.  But then he gets pissed that he’s doing too many things.  He starts ordering me to do a lot of stupid little shit until the balance goes to zero.  He hates owing me though.  I almost never have extra favors on my end.  I’m fine with that though.  I would rather keep it equal between us.”

“That’s… insane.”

“Eh.”  Ryan finished his scone and wiped his fingers on the napkin.  “It’s a living record that we do things for one another.  Proves to him that he needs me.  Proves to me that he’s willing to work to keep me.”

“Whatever works for you, I guess.”

Ryan downed the rest of his coffee.  He tapped the empty mug on the table twice.  “One more question, and then I need to bail: did you say something about me while you two were… the whole Canada/Alaska thing.  I don’t know what to call that shitshow.”

“Didn’t ‘Switch’ gleefully tell you all the juicy details?”

“His perspective is… his own.”

“Yeah.”  I tried to think back.  It would take hours to figure out what all we had said.  What related to Ryan or not.  “You came up a few times, but I don’t remember anything in particular.  Why?”

Ryan tapped his cup again, deciding on something he was deeply conflicted about.  His expression relaxed.  “He has this creepy list in his wallet.  One day, I walk in, and he’s not home.  His wallet is open on the coffee table and there’s a piece of paper folded up on top of it.  I assumed he left it there for me to read it but didn’t want to talk about it.  I looked it over.

“There’s shit like ‘Jail:  No TV.  Murder is hard.  Solitary is bad.  Drugs: Fewer nice clothes.  Accidently explode.  Hard to stop.’  A lot of it is that.  My entry is different.  He wrote, ’Ryan: Otherwise, you will die alone and in pain.’  Did you have something to do with that?”

I gave a breath of a laugh.  “Maybe I inspired it.  He thought I was a loser.  He loved watching me fail but wanted to be nothing like me.  Alone is my existential horror.  I don’t think the idea was directly <i>from</i> me though.  I think he figured it out on his own.”

Ryan gave a neutral, “Hm.”  Trying to decide whether to believe my lie.  He checked his watch.  “Well, like I said I have to go.  I’m probably not going to drop in on you again, but it’s nice to know that you seem to be doing better.”

“Same.  Between you two I mean.  It sounds like he’s treating you better.  And having you stabilizing his life probably makes him a little less prone to messing with other people.”

“I don’t know about that last part, but we’re tight.  That’s all I care about.”  Ryan stood.  “Goodbye, John.”

I held out my hand.  He shook it.  More on the firm side like I expected, but not the death grip.  “Maybe in another lifetime.”
