On the third morning of the trip, I finally got away from him.  If only for an hour.

The night before, we checked into some low budget hotel.  True to his word, he immediately claimed the bathroom to shower.  Because of course we shared a room.  He would have pitched it as <i>financially responsible</i> to Boss, like the rest of the trip.  That “alone” time was spent feeling sick to my stomach as I sat on the edge of the bed closest to the door.

I debated whether I would hide in the bathroom when he got out.  I needed real sleep.  It was hard to guess whether that was more likely to happen in a bed a few feet from him or laying on cold tile behind the security of a locked door.

Switch left the shower whistling some unknown pop tune.  He grabbed the remote from inside the wooden tv cabinet.  As he hopped onto the free bed, the news appeared on the screen.  I thought that meant we would sit in silence.

The small talk started.

I stood up stiffly, grabbed a pillow from what could have been my bed, and made my way to the bathroom.  He tsked.  “I guess we can talk in the morning.  Night.”

Something came out of my mouth in response.  It may not have been a real word.  My mind focused on the task at hand.  Open door.  Enter cell.  Close door.  The indescribable, satisfying relief of the lock turning.

His used towel and the damp bathmat covered the floor.  Draping them over the tub, I dropped my pillow in their place.  I did not sleep well that night, but I did at least sleep.

The third time I woke up shivering, it was 6AM.  Late enough that I could wander around the hotel and not look like a creep.  I sat up slowly, rubbing a pulled muscle in my neck.  Luckly, I was able to massage it into silence.  It only hurt when I turned my head too far to the right.

And now for the impossible mission: leaving undetected.  With a cat burglar’s precision, I silently unlocked the door.  I nudged it a fraction of an inch from its shut position, waiting for a trap to spring.

Yesterday, I had opened the door without thinking.  His hairbrush had tumbled off the door frame, clattering onto the floor and scaring the goddamn shit out of me.  That was what I swore at the time too.  All the noise woke him up.  Exactly as planned.  I knew what to expect this time.  The question was: how would I stop it?

I wiggled the door back and forth.  Nothing.  I pushed it a little more, sneaking my fingers around the frame.  They probed for the brush or any other booby traps.  Nothing.  No objects.  No string.  No tape.  Maybe he had put something on the doorknob?  I would need to get my whole hand through to check that.

A few more careful inches of opening.  My hand snaked through and touched the knob.  Nothing.  I felt around blindly, eventually finding the counter.  Everything seemed fine there too.  Reluctantly, I slinked out of the bathroom.  Nothing happened.  

I listened closely.  His breathing, slow and predictable, proved he was asleep.  Or at least that he was faking it well.  Step by step, I made it passed the sink counter, still searching for traps.  Nothing was out of order.

By the time I reached the door to the hallway, I was furious that he had done nothing.  That he had cultivated this paranoia in me but did not have the decency to be consistent about his tactics.  But consistency would prove he was walking evil.  Anything can happen once by mistake.  By accident.  His M.O. was plausible deniability.

I rested my hand on the exit door’s deadbolt.  No matter how slowly I turned it, it still made a sliding noise.  It clicked when the pin disengaged from its trap in the doorframe.  I paused, fixated on his breathing.  The last hurdle was the light column that would come in from the hallway when the door opened.  Pushing down on the handle, I prayed that the room’s layout would prevent any light from falling on him.

His jeering laugh echoed in my mind.  It seemed so loud that I almost believed it was real.  That he had woken up to torment me.  Jeering at me.  Reveling in my incompetent escape.

I stood in the hallway.  The door was shut.   I stared at it in disbelief.  I was out.

Stumbling aimlessly around the hotel brought me to the dining hall.  They were just setting up for breakfast.  I autopiloted my way to a coffee and a pile food.  I sat at a table by myself.  Dumbfounded that I was truly alone.

Once the coffee woke me up, I looked down at my plate.  Cold French toast, loaded with powdered sugar, maple syrup, and strawberries.  Normally, I would consider something that sweet kid’s food best avoided.  Right then, it was exactly the comfort I needed.  Sticky, decadent simplicity.  It was good that I had eaten the night before.  If I had bolted down that sugar-bomb on an empty stomach, it would not have stayed down.

Eventually, it dawned on me that I had picked a table near a window.  It was a chilly there, but worth it.  The streetlamps shimmered as they illuminated gentle snowfall though the dim streets.  The haziness made the scene a moving, impressionist painting.  Yeah, I was sick as I was of living in snow.  It was still pretty when it came down as dry powder.  I found luxury in watching it as I finished a second coffee.

“Morning!  How did you sleep?”  Plates clattered onto the table in time with his words.  My peace ended.


I nodded despite myself.  With my hands wrapped around my mug and my gaze safely set on window, his current presence was underwhelming.  I glanced at his plate.  Fruit, toast, and coffee with so much cream and sugar that it was almost white.  Not that I was one to judge the coffee after my own breakfast, but it made his healthy choices moot.

As he reached for his fork, I noticed his shirt was so perfectly smooth and crisp that he was practically steaming.  “Why do you bother ironing if we’re just driving?”

“I happen to like dressing nice.  It puts me in the right mindset.  I do it on weekends too.  Though, I think you already knew that.”

I had no interest in knowing what his definition of “the right mindset” was.  “How many days until we hit Alaska?”

“I planned for three more.  I don’t really like to drive for 12-hours straight, but—"

“I want to drive today.”

He shook his head with an apologetic smile.  “I told you before: it’s <i>my</i> car.  No one else drives it, no offense.”

I resisted the urge to restart the argument that we should have taken my car instead.  He would insist that the product would not fit in my little 2-door.  <i>Clearly</i>, the trunk was too short.  I told him the seats folded back, but he refused to listen.  <i>His</i> plan.  <i>His</i> car.  <i>His</i> rules.

“I’ve been meaning to ask you something.”  He stared down at his mug, tapping a rhythm on its handle.  It was not the same one from the car last night.  It was faster.  Syncopated so treacherously that the underlying beat was unclear.  He looked up.  “Do you know what Alpine does?”

“’<i>Alpine provides novel solutions to common bottlenecks in business growth and management, increasing the’—</i>something, something.”<i>
</i>
He was exactly as impressed with my poor memorization of Alpine’s pitch as I hoped he would be.  It was in <i>his</i> half of the presentation.  “Yes.  But what does it do?”

“What do you mean?”

“Under the hood.  The code.  What does the thing <i>do</i>?”

I considered that.  “Takes in data and spits out other data?  I don’t know.  I mostly worked on the security protocols and safety shutoffs.  Why, do you know?”

He shrugged.  “My job was to make it look pretty and function efficiently.  I never got the big picture from Boss.  I thought you would know since you designed the thing’s brain.”

“I just did the tasks Dave and Ryan assigned to me.  If anyone would know, it would be them.”

“Ryan doesn’t know either.  As for Dave… I don’t think Dave would know.  I don’t think he’s all that bright to be perfectly honest.”

Thankfully, I was not drinking my coffee or I would have spit it out.  Dave was the most frighteningly intelligent being I had ever met.  He knew C++ inside and out.  Once, he joked about reading through the language’s old documentation to get into the designers’ original headspace.  To understand their grand scheme.  I think he really did read some of it too.  Dave’s code was art.  I learned so much from just looking at what he did.

“Okay, I know what you’re thinking.” He leaned in and whispered.  “I’m not saying Dave’s dumb.  That would be silly.  It’s just… Oh, I don’t know.  He’s a master of his trade.  I’ll give you that.”  He sighed.  Taking a bite of toast, he fabricated a well-timed pause to pretend to think.  He waved his index finger around, nodding as it <i>came to him</i>.

He continued at normal volume.  “It’s like this.  I see myself as a jack-of-all-trades and master-of-none.  I’ve made myself like that for a reason.  I have a flexibility in topics and skills that other people don’t have.  I appreciate the expertise of a master, but that’s all they have to offer.  The technicalities of their little pet subject.  It makes for a very small world and limited mindset, if you ask me.  It’s that stunted view that makes me feel like Dave is even more in the dark about Alpine than we are.”

“Given that <i>he</i> coded it, you’re wrong.”

“To each their own.  You do find it funny though, don’t you?”

“What?”

“We built this thing.  We’ve been practicing the demo for weeks.  We’re about to present it to potential customers.  And yet, neither of us has any clue what it’s doing.”

The same thought had been nagging at me for months.  I had been too busy trying to maintain my sanity entertain it.  “That…” I stopped myself.  This was dangerous.  He was digging for this admission.  I wanted to talk about it.  But not with him.  That conversation might give him an opening to go deeper.  We had to stay on the surface.  “I guess that says a lot about management, huh?”

Silence.

He broke into a raucous cackling.  A full-bodied, discordant clanging, at odds with his well-practiced, politely engaged chuckle.  This was his real, honest laughter.

I stared dumbly at him as he choked on his mirth.  After a coughing fit, he regained his composure long enough to look at me.  He swiped the tears from his eyes then dissolved back into giggles.  What in the hell was so goddamn funny about my meaningless, throwaway remark?!

I got up from the table when he gave to wheezing again.  “I’m going to get my stuff and check out.  Is your bag packed?”

He sputtered a “yes.”

Shaking with as much fear as rage, I marched out of the dining hall.  I had just lost a game with impossible-to-understand rules that I never knew I was playing.  Taking wrong turns through the gridded hallways heightened my frustration.  Finally, I found the room again.

Throwing the door open, I yanked my little duffle bag from the bed and tossed it out onto the hallway.  Next up was his oversized, wheeled suitcase.  I pulled it a few feet.  <i>Shhhhh</i>.  I stopped.  The lid dragged on the floor.  It was still open.  I looked around the room.  His stuff was scattered about.  Even the company credit card laid inexplicably in center of his bed.

The options flashed through my mind.  One: wait until he took care of it.  Two: leave his unpacked stuff there.  Three: clean it up like his personal maid.  Each choice came its respective consequences.

My knees buckled, but I caught myself on the bed’s side.  I lowered myself carefully to the floor.  The dizziness ebbed and flowed like waves at the beach.  A dirty, cream-colored, sock balled into a heap stared up at me.  I shut my eyes.  Reached for it.  Tossed it into the suitcase.

Twenty minutes later, the deed was done.  I went to the lobby.  And there he was.  Reclined on a worn leather couch.  A smiled flickered onto his face when he saw his suitcase by my side.  He stayed there, watching me check out.

The hotel receptionist suffered from a bad case of coffee-infused perkiness.  Our overly pleasant exchange went by at double speed.  Suddenly, I was swiping the company credit card to complete the transaction.  And then it was over.  I had run out of reason to delay the inevitable.

I shuffled over to the couch.  I held out the receipt and card.  I expected him to grab his bag instead.  To check whether I got everything.  He took the card and only the card.  He said, “Let’s get going.”

We walked outside.  He pointed for me to put his bag behind the driver’s seat.  Mine went behind the passenger’s seat.  We got in the car.  He started driving.  He never checked his suitcase’s contents.  He knew there was no need.
