When I moved south, I had already picked out where I wanted to live: this old, brick, four-floored, apartment building.  It was out of the downtown epicenter, but still a ten-minute drive from work.  Five from the grocery store.  The place was called “Blossom.”  Not “Blossom Apartments” or “The Blossom” or “Blossom Place.”  Just Blossom.  It felt simple and right.

The whole reason I went south was for the heat.  The sun.  No more crappy winters and endless grey skies.  I think flowers represent spring to most people, but for me they mean summer.  Between Blossom’s name and low rent, I was happy to put up with the plumbing and electrical quirks that plague older buildings.

I was on the top floor.  Unit 403.  A studio without much in the way of a kitchen.  Cooking and I are tentative strangers at the best of times anyway.  There was enough counter space for my coffee brewer and to make a sandwich.  As for appliances, I had a stove to boil pasta water and a microwave for popcorn and leftovers.  That was all I needed.

Half-wall dividers broke the space into the kitchen, a much larger living room, and a bedroom nook.  In the living room, I set up a couch, coffee table, floor lamp, and a console table with an old tube TV.  A few other things were scattered about, like a bean bag chair left over from college.  I was never a pack rat.

My bedroom area only had the bed and my radio alarm clock.  And the clock sat on the floor by my headphones.  Otherwise, there was the small bathroom where two of the five vanity lights were out.  I never bothered replacing them.  The place was sparce, but it felt cozy to me.  Especially with the floors.  For some reason, they were old, polished wood instead of tile, laminate, or carpet.  I loved that.  

The feature that sold me on this apartment was the little balcony.  The view was mediocre, but I could walk into my own private piece of the outdoors in my boxers to enjoy the morning sunshine with my coffee.  That was a big deal for me.  It was the kind of basic luxury I had seen gritty bachelors enjoy on tv and in movies.  Something I had wanted since I was a kid.

I tried to grow plants out there, but they never made it.  When I felt good enough to care for them, I drowned them.  When I barely felt good enough to care for myself, they shriveled up from neglect.  The only thing that survived up there was the dandelion.

That obnoxious pest planted itself in a tiny crack between the concrete floor and the wall.  Its twisted leaves and stems stretched out from the crevasse, defying all logic and sense to thrive there.  I suffered its existence until it grew on me.  I adopted it.  Its name was Charlie.  I thought that was a good name for a lion.

What I am trying to get at here is that this place was my home.  Even when work was shit, even when I spent sleepless nights on the couch, even when I had to throw away another failed plant experiment, I was safe there.  <i>This space was mine</i>.  It had been a long time since I felt that way about a place that I was living in.

Saturday.  A few weeks after my harassment claim against Ryan.  I felt okay.  Life at the office had mostly gone back to normal.  I still asked Bea for things in person instead of via email, but not because I had to.  She preferred human contact.  A small price to stay on her good side.

I was still a stranger to everyone outside the Alpine team, but my entrances no longer triggered a hush.  My co-workers stopped avoiding me.  I never found the guts to ask what their understanding of the situation was, but everything seemed fine.

My alarm clock beamed 10AM.  Rolling out of bed, I meandered to the coffee machine.  The rich, roasting smell brought a smile to my face.  Past me had remembered to preload the grounds.  I usually forgot on Fridays.  Thursdays were rough too.  But on that day, a warm pot had been patiently waiting for me for three hours.  It was a welcome sight.

My favorite mug sat by the sink, stained with the dregs from yesterday.  It read “tech wizard” above a steampunk-style merlin.  I bought it for new job but felt silly bringing it in.  Dave was unquestionably the superior programmer.  But I was the best coder in the apartment, so I could enjoy it at home.

I gave it a quick rinse.  A hint of cream-color had seeped into the white ceramic.  The only proof that I used it.  Most people get those metallic stir rings in their mug bottoms.  I had nothing to stir in, so mine were always pristine in that regard.  Filling my cup, I huffed in the earthy steam.  Next stop: the balcony.

I placed the mug on a plastic, two-person table that had come from a garage sale.  A matching chair and worn cushion lived next to it.  Before I sat down, I popped inside to grab my dingy, oversized, paperweight of a laptop that barely held battery charge.  A farewell gift from the old job.  They were buying a new one for the new guy.  I was more than happy to have the junker.  We had been through a lot together.

Setting the laptop on the table, I checked my email.  There was something from Ryan that I had been expecting.  No need to open it.  The title told me everything: “Tim’s busy this weekend.”

Ryan and I developed a weird relationship.  We were not exactly friends.  I never told him how Switch’s presence affected me.  Regardless, Ryan realized that I was absolutely terrified of Switch.  He started running interference between me and Switch.  It kept me safe.  It gave Ryan more excuses to talk to Switch.  It was a win-win situation.  For the two of us anyway.  The weekend emails were a part of that game.  They let me know whether it was safe to go to work.

After typing quick thank you message, I closed the laptop.  Easing into my chair, a thought hit me.  I wanted to pay Ryan back.  How could I express my gratitude without Switch catching me doing it?  Understand, I had no doubt he was aware of our scheming.  Though, thus far, he had done nothing to disrupt it.  The last thing I wanted was give Switch a reason to act.  Maybe I could get Ryan a gift certificate or something?  That felt so impersonal.  I knew little about Ryan besides his smoking habit.

After my second coffee, I got into a loose pair of Nike shorts and a ratty, grey t-shirt.  My jogging outfit.  I read online that exercise can help with stress, so I was giving it a try.  I had already learned it was a no-go on weekdays.  It left me physically exhausted at work.  That made my sleepless nights even worse.  

The weekend runs were nice though.  I would go out for an hour and only jog twenty minutes of it.  When I came back in, I showered then napped until midafternoon.  Those naps were the best sleep I got all week.

I laced up my shoes and left the apartment.  The elevator brought me to the first floor lobby.  Main office to my left.  Mailbox cube wall to my right.  Exit straight ahead.

Outside, I basked in the glorious heat.

Actually, it was so muggy that it felt like I was swimming instead of walking.  I forced myself find joy in days like this specifically because he disliked them.  And, yes, a part of me was concerned about how many random things I now associated with Switch.  At least this time, I used that neurotic compulsion constructively.

In the end, I had five minutes of jogging through that wet heat in me.  It looked like I had run for the full hour though.  Panting and soaked in sweat, I plodded into the lobby.  Its ice cold AC left me shivering.  I hoped for rain, so Sunday would be less oppressive.

My finger limply pressed the up button to summon the elevator.  As I waited, someone entered the building and stopped behind me.  The elevator arrived with a ding.  I stepped in.  Blocking the door from closing with my left hand, I hit the fourth floor button with my right.  Without looking away from the button panel, “What floor?”

“Third, please and thank you!”

My skin prickled.  No.  He should not be here.  It could not be him.  I hated to look, but what choice did I have?  I glanced back.  Of course.  It <i>was</i> him.

Switch struggled with one too many overfilled, paper grocery bags.  They blocked his view, so he had not looked at me straight on yet.  Maybe he would get off without recognizing me.  One of his bags started to topple.  I grabbed it on reflex.

With an embarrassed laugh, he said, “Goodness!  Thank you—"  We made eye contact.  His pupil size was static.  He knew it was me before he got into the elevator.  “You!  What are you doing here?”

Dressed in sharp business casual, he exuded his omnipresent aura.  I felt horribly outclassed and exposed in my sweaty, junk work-out clothes.  Holding the bag tight, I used it as a shield to put space between us.

He seemed to be waiting for a response he would never get.  The elevator doors slid shut.  He put down one of his bags and reached past me to hit the third floor button.  With an apologetic smile, “I guess you’re as surprised to see me as I am to see you.  Do you live here too?”

My brain shut down.  I knew how to handle him at work.  I knew the rules there.  He was not allowed to be here.  He existed at work and only at work.  He was a vapor that dissipated once I left the office.  His standing in front of me now was a physical impossibility!

The elevator stopped and the door opened.  He picked up the bag from the floor and stepped halfway out.  “Hey, since you’ve already got that bag, how about you help me get this stuff to my place?”

He was in the hall before I could answer.  I could have left the bag on the floor.  I wanted to.  It would expose how wrong the situation was, but it would save me in this moment.

Was it worth it though?  The last time I quit the social dance, that time I expressed how bizarre our interactions were, that time I directly addressed the thing under the mask, reality twisted further.  I still have nightmares of the Crossroads between my fingers.

I followed him.

“I moved in just last night,” he explained.  “This complex is closer to work than my old place.  Also, it’s cheaper.  It’s a little small, but more space really just means more to clean, don’t you think?  I do so dislike dusting and vacuuming.”

I stifled a whimper when he stopped his apartment’s door.  He used a key on room 303.  The unit directly below mine.  I tried to take solace in the fact that he was not in 402 or 404.  I told myself, “This could be so much worse.”  As if that somehow lessened how bad it was.

He stumbled into the apartment, off-balance from carrying too much.  He dumped his bags on the counter laughing, but his motions were stiff.  His poor coordination had been unintentional this time.  “Come on in then!  You can set the bag down wherever.”

I remained frozen in place.

A gently disapproving sigh.  He walked up to me and slipped an arm around my shoulders to corral me inside.  My memory shot back to our introduction.  My first day of work.  I all but ran inside to get away from his touch.

Shaking, I dropped the bag on a pile of unopened moving boxes.  Box stacks were tucked into corners all over the apartment.  The unit’s layout was identical to mine.  Maybe every apartment in the complex looked the same, but that familiarity among foreignness set me further off balance.

“I need you to sit.”  He grabbed my arm.  I broke away from him.  Staggered sideways.  Caught myself on the wall.  “Boy, you are white as a sheet, and you know you have those bad spells.  I don’t want to drag you back to your apartment.  Sit!”

Real concern or not, he was right.  I was going down.  He pointed to a cream-colored couch in the living room.  I staggered over to it and collapsed.  Good timing.  My hearing went out a few seconds later.

I had no idea he stood before me with a water glass until he shoved it into my hand.  It looked like he was issuing orders.  Probably telling me to drink.  I did so, hoping it would appease him.  My vision degraded into white noise.  I think I saw him walk away before everything went out.

Eventually, my nervous system stopped betraying me.   Straightening up, I rubbed at my pulsing forehead.  I was going to have a massive headache later.

“Keep drinking.  I warned you about humid days like this.”  The water glass sat on the coffee table in front of me.  He was in the kitchen putting away groceries.

“It’s not a dehydration thing.”  I was thirsty though.  No point in starting a fight with him.  I gulped down the rest of the water.  Because it was there, I examined the glass.  Thick and heavy.  Enough flair to be fancy, but not bold enough to claim any specific style.  He plucked the glass from my hand and returned to the kitchen to refill it.

I scanned the apartment with fresh eyes.  The couch sat on a mustard-colored rug.  His glass coffee table was rimmed with gold-plated metal, sitting on legs of the same material.  His bed sheets were sunshine yellow.  I got the feeling that, once he had everything set up, his apartment was going to be very, very bright.

The glass reappeared in my face.  I took it, mumbling, “Thanks.”

He strode to the other side of the couch and settled down.  “What do you think of the place so far?  I know it’s a bit of a mess, but I think you can tell what I’m going for.”

I nodded, as if nodding were a sensible response to his question.

“Do you want to talk about it?”

“What?”

“You know what.”

“No, I don’t.”  I started drinking as an excuse to stop talking.

“I know what you and Ryan have been doing.  If that’s really what you need, okay.  It’s kind of adorable how Ryan gets what he thinks he’s taking care of people.  He gives off a wonderful energy.  I just want you to know that…” His hand wandered to a tv remote laying between us.  He tapped a pattern on the buttons.  Not pressing them, just touching them.  He spoke tonelessly.  “You know, you’re not the first person to think I’m too intense.  Maybe I am.”

That struck a chord with me.  It was the only thing he had said since we met that felt real.  I studied him, suspicious.  He picked up the remote to fidget with it.  His eyes stayed glued to it rather than on me.

He continued.  “I don’t know what to do.  No matter what I say or how I act, it doesn’t work with you.  You’re always seeing something you’re not supposed to see.  And it’s not like I can turn it off.”

I stared down at the half-empty water glass.  What was he trying to say?

“I thought maybe you would get it when I encouraged you take that form.”  He nodded absentmindedly.  “I thought you were going to put me down in it, but I wanted to you do what you needed to do.”

“Making me take it felt like a threat.  Not encouragement.”

“How was it a threat?”

“It was like you were daring me to go at you.  Like you thought you were invincible.”

“I wanted you to see that there’s more to me than you understand.”

What was this conversation?  I had never expected to talk to him like this.  Had I fully misjudged him?  Yes, there was something wrong with him.  But whatever it was, it only affected <i>me</i>.

I had always struggled to reconcile his toxicity towards me and the positive impact he had on everyone else.  Did we just have the wrong synergy?  Was he trying to not be a monster?  I was paralyzed by what I saw under his mask.  Did seeing the real him prevent him from being good around me?  Christ, with the baggage rotting in my skull, I should know how to recognize others trying to hold back their demons.  It is a skill I have yet to develop.

I swallowed hard.  “Why did you move here?”

“I—" He squeezed the remote.  Dropping it, he threw his hands to his sides.  “I thought it would help somehow.  As if seeing what you saw day-to-day would reveal how to get through to you.  I would figure out why I affect you so much.  It was an impulsive decision.”

He finally turned to me.  I looked away.  He huffed.  “I’ve never been in an interaction like this before.  I don’t get you, but you see me.  I feel like I need to talk to you.  For real.  Clearly, I can’t force you to listen, but I think we’ll get there if I play my cards right.”  He pulled back into himself.  “I suppose I’m not playing my cards very well.”

“You won’t get there by manipulating me.  By invading my space.”

“I don’t know how else to do this.”

“You have to be honest.”

“You won’t like my honesty.  No one does.”

That hit hard.  A younger me would have said that.  I dared to meet his gaze, fighting back the dizziness.  “Try me.”

Black blazed in his icy eyes.  For the first time ever, he broke the stare, turning away.  “I don’t think I’m prepared to do that just yet.”

I sighed and looked down, intensely relieved.  “I’m not either.”

Neither of us said anything more.  The silence broke with crackling as a grocery bag toppled over.  He ignored it, but I looked back.  It was the one I had put on his boxes.  Mumbling, “Sorry, that was my bad.”

He shrugged.  His arms crossed and uncrossed.  Cautiously, he held a hand out to me.  “Do you promise there will be a day when we’re both ready?”

The idea of touching him was revolting.  But I thought he was vulnerable.  I believed that I had the real person under the mask on the line.  How could I reject that?  I shook his hand and croaked out, “Yeah.”

He pulled his hand away and stood up.  “You should probably go back to your apartment now.  I’ve got a lot of work to do.”  The fake melodic tone came back.  “There’s unpacking, and decorating, and making it all look lived in and feel homey...  I invited Ryan over tomorrow for a house-warming sort of thing.  Even if it’s not a house, I think that’ll be nice.”

“Hope so.  Like you said.  I should go.  I need a shower.”

He laughed.  “You really do.  And next time you go out running, bring a water bottle, for goodness’ sake!”

Nodding, I got up.  I felt incredibly strange.  Hopefully, a shower would clear my head.  I opened the door to leave.

“I don’t suppose you want to come?  Tomorrow.”

“I use my weekends to recharge.”

“Well, maybe next time then.  Consider it an open invitation.  If we’re going to be neighbors, then we should be neighborly.”

“I’ll keep it in mind.”  I waved a weak, confused goodbye and left.

It all came back on repeat in the shower.  My heart and my old traumas were raging against one another.  My head barely got a word in edge wise<i>.

He is a monster; trust your instincts.  No, he just doesn’t have good boundaries; yours were pretty shit before too, remember?  He made you hurt him.  Yeah, because his impulse control sucks, and he doesn’t think things through.  He riled Ryan up until he went apeshit on you!  And then he made you take the form to report Ryan when you were going to give up.  He used your code to stalk you.  He just wanted to tell you that you wouldn’t have to convince everyone of the insane truth.  He is stalking you so aggressively that he found out where you live and moved in below you.  He admitted that was a fucking stupid decision!  He’s found your soft spots.  You can’t say trust your instincts and then decide that the gut feeling that he was being real for once was wrong!  Fixing him will not redeem you.  That.  Has nothing.  To do.  With anything.
</i>
I opted to not eat that day.  I went straight to bed after my shower.  Not that I slept.

When I gave up tossing in bed, it was 7AM the next morning.  I ambled over to the brewer.  I forget to set it up the night before.  With a sigh, I took a filter from upper cabinet and put it into the machine.  Then grounds.  Hot water.  Start button.  It sputtered and gurgled.

While I waited for the machine to brew a cup’s worth, I decided to check on Charlie.  Stepping out onto the balcony changed my entire mood.  The cool concrete under my bare feet grounded me.  A feeling of security rushed through me.

I crouched by Charlie.  He was growing a new flower bud.  A good one this time.  Earlier that summer, he had put up a few short stalks that had made tiny, horse-shoe-shaped flowers.  They had not seeded well.  This time, the stalk was a solid three inches long and the bud was symmetrical.  I congratulated Charlie on a job well done.  If the seeds looked good, I planned to blow them into a bag when they were ready.  I would release them in some nice green space beyond the city limits.

Then I smelled cherry smoke.

The sacred moment with my persistent dandelion was violated.  I peeked over the balcony railing.  There he was.  Smoking away as the sun crept up.  Seeing him rekindled the intense debate in my head.  That morning, I drank my coffee inside with two aspirin.
