“Just so we’re on the same page, why are you being so quiet?”  We were a few hours into highway 16 by the time I asked.  He had been dead silent since the gas station.  Even when we had stopped for lunch earlier, he only said enough to order his food.

He perked up.  “I thought some space would do you good.  Was I wrong?”

I fidgeted with the fresh bandage on my hand.  Removing the old gauze had reopened the cut.  Since then, it had been itching and driving me crazy.   “No.”

“If the silence is uncomfortable, then I’m more than happy to talk with you.”

“You’re going to do what you want to do regardless of how I feel.”

He scoffed.  “Honestly, must you be presumptuous?  I’ve more than shown I know how to be polite and courteous of others.”

“When you feel like it.”

“I wish you would stop taking advantage of the fact that we’re alone to be like this.”

“It evens the playing field.”

That caught him off-guard.  I wondered if Switch was starting to get why my recharge time was so important.  For <i>him</i>, I mean.  For me, it meant feeling like my life was worth living.  For his sake, though, I could only take so many hits before going numb.  Before biting into everything with deadpan, nihilistic cynicism.  A defense mechanism I thought I had trained out of myself.

My comment seemed to end the conversation.  The roads were rough.  He struggled to stay at speed on the wet snow.  Concentrating on the bumps and slicks left him with little brain power leftover to harass me.  In that moment, I was thankful he was driving.  Navigating this tundra with him chattering in my ear would have been unbearable.

Eventually, he spoke up again.  “I think we need to agree on something.  If you’re not going to be nice to me, then I have no reason to be nice to you.  It’s unfair to expect politeness but return none.  Do you understand what I’m saying?”

I looked down.  I understood the threat.  Besides, being alone with him was no excuse to practice being an asshole.  It was a losing situation for everyone in the long run.  “Yeah.  Sorry.  You know this is hard on me.”  I bit back the words, <i>It’s the entire reason you planned it this way.  Hope you like what you got!</i>

He shook his head.  “You need to get sleep tonight.  Or maybe you could sleep now?”

“I’ve never been able sleep well on car rides.”

“I feel that.”  He chuckled.  “I’ve always found them so exciting.”

“Is that why you wanted to drive Alpine yourself?”

“There was also the cost of chartering a private plane to get it securely to Alaska, but yes.  I like driving.  I think the thing I really want to do with my life is get… something.  I haven’t decided yet whether I want a motorcycle or a full RV.  I like the idea of driving down highways with nothing blocking the wind.  Nothing between me and the road but my ride’s wheels.  But it makes living comfortably a bit of a nightmare.  RVs are ugly things, but having the convenience is tempting.”

“Both is an option.”

He slowly repeated my words.  I think they sparked some grand epiphany in him, though he never told me the scope of it.  “Anyway, I want to drive around.  I don’t know if there’s anywhere specific I want to go or anything I want to see.  I just like the feeling of going somewhere.  I like driving.”

A warning honk.  Switch startled.  The car jolted back into our lane.  An 18-wheeler roared by our right, splashing us with a snow monsoon.  The impact rammed the car into the far-left lane’s pristine snowbank.  We lost traction.  He slammed the breaks like an idiot.  We skidded and skied.

“You have to—!"

The car swerved hard to the right.  He overcorrected.  Hard left.

“Stop turning!”

My words drowned under the tumbling snow’s thunderous roar.  He served us into a spin.  I decided to be an idiot too.  Unbuckled my seatbelt.  Launched myself into the driver’s seat.  Grabbed for the steering wheel.  Stopped him from turning it.

Screaming in his ear, “Get off the breaks!”

He either listened or was so shocked by my actions that he accidently let up.  The car plowed ahead sideways, but the truck had passed us.  We had plenty of space.  I turned the wheel enough to slow the spin.  The car found traction sliding backwards.  I let it slow to a natural stop.  Somehow, we stayed on the road.

Silence except for our communal panting.  A creeping sensation prickled over my skin.  I was completely on top of him.  His breath was polluting my neck.  I crawled back to the passenger’s side.  I stared straight out the dashboard window. We were the only ones on that highway for miles.  I clicked the hazard lights on anyway.

With the immediate problem solved, weariness settled over me.  Shaking like an arthritic old man, I eased into my seat and closed my eyes.  At this rate, I was going to die of a heart attack before I reached 30.

“I was going to pump the breaks.”

“Oh.”  I glanced over.  A bizarre expression cut into his face.  Staring straight ahead.  Slacked-jawed.  A smile twinging at the corners of his lips.  This maniac had enjoyed the near crash.  “You’re not going to let me take over.”

“No.” 

There was an edge in that single word revealing that, yes, he was furious I had taken the wheel.  For now, his wrath was buried under the near-death-experience euphoria.  If I dropped the argument, that rage would remain beneath the surface.  I sighed.  I put my seatbelt on.  “At least get over a lane.  The trucks cleared a path.  Take advantage of it.”

“Any other suggestions?  You know, in case this happens again.”  I glared at him.  His pupils were massive.  Cat-about-to-pounce massive.   “I’m not going to <i>try</i> to make it happen.”

I scrunched up my face with my hands.  Car crash murder was not high on my preferred-ways-to-die list.  “Think before you act.  If you wait, the car will correct itself.  If it doesn’t, then having the extra seconds to figure out a plan B will save you heartache.  Don’t be afraid to drive off the road if you need to.  Skidding up against a guard rail isn’t the worst thing either.  You do not want ram into another car.

“We can dig ourselves out of a trench.  We can drive with some scratches.  If we crash, we’re sunk.  No one is on these roads.  God knows how long it would take for help to find us.”  Freezing to death was a notch lower than death by Switch.  A flash of Alpine in the otherwise empty trunk crossed my mind’s eye.  I groaned.

“What?”

“You didn’t buy a snow shovel either, did you?”

He fidgeted with the steering wheel.  “I didn’t think it would be covered as a company expense.”

“I would have covered it if they didn’t.”

“You never told me that.”

“I didn’t know a 5$ shovel would break your bank.”

“It was going to cost more than that.  And it had to ship from out of state.  There wasn’t time.”

I almost let him get away with it.  Almost.  “Did you really look into it?”

He closed his eyes and gave a small, indignant shrug.  “Yes.”  Liar.  His finger hovered over the hazard lights button.  “I think we should get going.”  I nodded.  He clicked the button and made a slow U-turn.  He took my advice about the clear lane.  Thank god.  The all-season tires did a better on the compacted snow trail.

We cruised in silence for an hour before he hit his limit.  “How do you do that?”

“What?”

“Nothing.  You just sit there doing nothing.  You’ve done it for days.”

I shrugged.  One cannot explain the comfort of losing oneself in thought to another who does not naturally enjoy it.

“I thought you would at least bring a book or something.  Or do you get carsick?”

“I don’t.  But I haven’t read much since college.”

“Why not?”

Truth or evasion.  What was the right answer here?  “I was drawn to reading things that weren’t great for me.”

“I’m not sure I follow.”

“The stuff I wanted to read was… self-indulgent, in a way.”

He clicked his tongue.  “When it comes to something like reading, I don’t see how self-indulgence is a bad thing.”

“It reinforced some bad ideas.  It made me more closed off.”

“Huh.”  Yeah, he had no idea what I was saying.  “I always felt the opposite about what I read.  Books open doors for me, as cliché as that sounds.  Sometimes the characters are even interesting.  But I don’t think that’s what I read for.

“I like to figure out the author’s biases and judgements.  Those ideas they release into their work by accident.  They’re a portal to who the author is deep down.”  He gave a self-dismissive, polite laugh.  “I can’t say it’s ever affected me personally, though.  It’s just a game.”

His speech floored me.  Its sentiment not only proved he understood what I had said, but that he had a meaningful opinion on the matter.  It made me suspicious that he had memorized another person’s thesis on the value of books and spit it out verbatim.  Only one way to check.  “What exactly do you read?”

“I loved <i>Strangers on a Train</i> and <i>The Blunderer</i>.”

“Wasn’t the first one a movie or something?”

“Hitchcock made the movie, yes.  You’ve seen it?”

“No.”

“I like Hitchcock films too.  I think don’t fully understand them, but they’re different.  Still, the book was better.  Isn’t it always?”

I shrugged.  Deep down, my mind was racing.  I had a feeling about which Hitchcock film he liked best.  I had watched pieces of a couple.  A middle school English teacher had shown us clips to demonstrate literary concepts.  The movie that spoke to him was <i>Rear Window</i>.

The protagonist watches a murder taking place behind veils in another apartment.  Sure of what was happening.  Never in possession of concrete evidence to nail it down as fact.  There was always plausible deniability to the outsider.  Just like—Oh god.  I was empathizing with a Hitchcock thriller’s main character.

Switch chattered on for another half hour before he realized I had shut down.
