Behind my closet door is another door that should not be there.  I know it leads to the townhouse’s attic.  It has to.  But I never found its other side.  There is a barren wall in the attic where the door should be.

The thing is, the attic is too small inside.  I measured its dimensions.  It’s several feet shy of the floorplan specs.  And the door does not exist on floorplan.  I checked.  Three times.

I never opened the door that should not be there.

In fact, I stopped myself from even looking at it by shutting the closet.  When I moved in, before I realized that the door that should not be there could not exist, I had decided not to use the closet.  I had few possessions, and my bedroom was large.  Uncomfortably large.

I wish I had noticed that when I toured the place.  The open house’s set dressing hid the emptiness.  The too-much-distance between my bed and the closet.  The too-many-steps to reach the single light switch by the exit.

To fill that chasm, I scattered my suitcases and some empty boxes about the room.  It simulated a figment of cozy closeness.  So, there was simply no reason to use the closet.  It remained closed.

At least until the day I came home and found it wide open.

Technically, there are ways a door becomes unexpectedly open.  Perhaps some curious pet or child or friend or partner or maintenance worker had nosed their way in.  Perhaps I mindlessly jingled the doorhandle while distracted.  Surely, an AC draft could push it the rest of the way if it were disturbed.  Were these possibilities so hard to believe?  Well…

I have no pets or children.

I was too ill-at-ease in the space to invite anyone home.

I had not contracted a serviceman onto the premises.

If I had touched the handle, I would have remembered it.  Remembered the stinging in my fingers.  That pricking static perpetually vibrated through the metal.

No.  Somehow, the closet had <i>willed</i> itself open.

I turned around and left the house.  Over a long walk, I entertained the idea of never returning.  Finding a friend to stay with in the interim.  Starting over fresh. 

But that was ridiculous.  Who would take pity on an adult afraid of a closet?  How could I start over while shouldering the mortgage burden?  Could I live with myself if I quietly sold the door to someone else?

Besides, the few things I own are precious.  Photos of lost, ethereal moments.  Meaningless notes scrawled on paper scraps that capture the writer‘s essence.  Bits and bobs and junk I unconsciously picked up along the way.  Relics of dear memories.  Sentimentality in physical form.  I couldn’t abandon that.

With my head cleared, I forced myself back into the house.  To walk up the creaky stairs.  To enter the vacuous room.  To stare at the open closet door.

My fingertips briefly contacted its warped wood.  I pushed it shut.

With the grave task completed, I felt relief.  This was a situation I could manage.  The desire to pack up and run left me.  And, as the weeks and months passed, the incident faded into an isolated nightmare I had awoken from.  I went on with my life.

The second time I found the closet door open, I was stunned.  But I knew what to do.  No long walk required.  I cautiously closed it with an insistent click.  I thought that would solve the problem for a long while.  I went on with my life.

The third occasion was later that week.  At night.

I wandered into the bedroom with mint on my breath.  My stride wobbled with exhaustion after a long day of demanding work.  Collapsing into bed, I expected to be asleep in minutes.

Except my weary gaze drifted to the closet.  It looked like it was open.  It had not been open when I walked in.  I had checked.

Despite the electric adrenaline surging into my veins, I sat up slowly.  My limbs trembled as if I had Parkinson’s.  A dim floor lamp stood by my bed.  I nearly knocked it over turning it on.

The closet was indeed ajar.

Exhaling stiffly, I tentatively stepped onto the floor.  The lamp’s glow shielded me from the dark as I tiptoed through the room.  Skirting the walls.  Reaching the light switch.  Flipping it on.

Brightness flooded the room with life, banishing the abyssal night.  I could breathe again.  My pulse settled.

Until I looked at the closet door.  It was still open, of course.

Gingerly, I reached out and tapped the handle.  It zapped my fingers before the door clicked closed.  But the deed was done.  I flicked off the main light and returned to bed.  Lying down, I shut off the lamp.  I tried to sleep.

I tossed and turned.  The space around me felt larger.  Too empty.  On instinct, I glanced at the closet.

It was open.

A puny whine murmured out of me as my fists tightened around my blanket.  I fumbled for the lamp with weak hands.  I stumbled to the light switch on legs that protested carrying my weight.  I sank onto the floor as I hit the main light.

<i>Why was the closet door open?</i>

I crawled to it.  Pushed it closed from its bottom right corner.  It gave a satisfactory click.  This time, I knew better than to trust that.  To ensure it was truly shut, I pressed my palm flat against it.

The wood felt warm.  Like someone else had touched it in the same place.  Or as if something on the other side was shedding molten heat.  The board flexed.  My hand flinched back.

However, the door remained closed.

With the task now surely completed, I returned to the light switch.  Oh, how I wanted to keep it on.  The thing is, I’ve never been able to sleep with the lights on.  I let the main light die.  I continued deeper into the room.  Closer to the yellow pool of lamplight.

Reaching the midpoint, I heard a squeak.  Whispering hinges cracking the silence.  I knew what had happened.  I had to see it anyway.  I turned around.

The closet door was mockingly open.

Rage boiled over me that this thing would not hold tight.  That it dared defy my actions, my orders, our unstated contract.

I stormed up to it.  Slammed it closed.  Beat my fists on it.  Futilely threw empty boxes before the threshold.  I roared for that godforsaken, useless hunk of plywood coated in too many layers of cheap, drippy paint stay in place!

Panting filled the air.  Even in the dark, I saw I had dented the wood.   But it was closed.  It was still.

My body remembered how tired it was.  The anger dissolved.  I dragged myself to bed, keeping an eye on the closet.  It stayed closed.  I turned off the lamp.  It was shut.  I laid down.  The door did not move.  Sleep took me.

When I awoke the next morning, the closet door was wide open.

Now, I don’t know what to do.  Every time I close the closet, it opens itself again.  I placed heavy things in front of it.  They were gently pushed aside and left in an orderly line.  I duct taped it shut and later found the tape politely rolled into cylinders on the floor.

Today, I bought a lock, but I’m afraid to install it.  What happens if the closet discovers how to unlock itself?  If that exercise teaches it how to unlock the front door?  I cannot let the closet learn anything else, because the door that should not be there is now cracked open.
