The strongest memories of my grandfather are set in his back garden.  Wildflowers, orchids, azaleas, natives, exotics, ferns, mosses, mushrooms, trees, and even the lichens on the tree’s bark.  Grandpa loved them all.  He found a way to encourage the stubbornest plants to thrive in his messy jungle paradise.

Neighbors would stop to gawk at its beauty.  They also mumbled under their breath about the wildflowers shedding seeds into their yards.  Which was true.  Everyone’s lawn was speckled with purples and oranges and whites.

That place was my getaway every summer.  My vacation.  My second home.

Naturally, it was where I ended up when I handed my husband the divorce papers.  It was Mom’s idea for me to live with Grandpa.  He was struggling to keep up his garden and house by then.  You can guess which he prioritized.  Mom thought that it would be good for both of us if I moved in and helped.  At least until they could convince him it was time to go into assisted living.

As it turned out, I spent about as much time cleaning the house as Grandpa did.  We both loved that garden.  Trimming back hedges.  Checking soil acidity.  Gently removing the weeds and transplanting them in the community park down the way.

Getting my hands dirty in the dappled sunlight was exactly the therapy I needed.  Its peace brought me closure.  Our days were repetitive and mundane, but we were happy as could be.  And when the letter came that February, he was over the moon.

Grandpa belonged to The International Order of Rare and Obscure Flora.  An exclusive society for plant geeks.  They took about a hundred members at any time.  Grandpa said he had earned his place back when they allowed for only twenty members.  His membership id was #67.  At 23 years old, he had been youngest person ever admitted.  And the letter conferred him a new honor.

Sprawling gardens surrounding the order’s headquarters.  For nine months a year, the three heads of the order took turns manicuring the grounds.  The last three months, another member would take over.  It was a chance to put one’s knowledge, love, and soul into that sacred soil.  Being selected for that privilege was the ultimate reward for a member.

Grandpa had applied for that position every year since he joined.  He had never been accepted.  The worst years were those when no one was selected.  The powers that be decided that they had to take on those last three months themselves.

That was how the last four years had gone.  This year though, the letter told him it was finally his time.  From June through August, he would be the Grounds Master.

We went out to dinner that night to celebrate.  Italian food.  There was nothing Grandpa loved more than a plate of spaghetti and meatballs.  The next morning, he sent acceptance confirmation by mail.  Then he turned to me.  And we got to down to planning.

The order was set in England’s remote countryside.  While Grandpa bought his plane ticket, I got him a spare umbrella.  It took no effort to decide how to care for his own garden while he was away.  That was my privilege.  He trusted me to ignore any scheming on my parent’s part.  I would never sell the property to force him into an old folk’s home.

Books on novel horticultural techniques showed up on the coffee table.  He tried to read them but always put them down with a sigh.  Eventually, he told me, “They say all the things I already know in words with too many syllables.  When did gardening stop being about love and care and turn into a science experiment?” He shrugged it off.  The order was filled with oldsters.  His methods would align with theirs.

When May hit, the excitement ramped up day by day.  Once, I walked in on Grandpa singing some oldy badly out of tune.  After a moment of silent horror, he doubled his volume and blasted through the remaining lyrics.  And something tells me he did not know all the words.  

Before the letter, Grandpa and knowing-what-day-it-was were strangers.  After the letter, he bought a calendar to count down the days until his trip.  Every morning another X crossed off the prior day.  The open space between his Xs and the O around his flight date were ever shrinking.

On May 15th, I went to the kitchen to make breakfast and saw that the 14th was unmarked.  Odd, since Grandpa was an early riser.  I knocked on his door.  No answer.  I tentatively let myself in, calling for him.  Silence.  He was still in bed.  I put a hand on his shoulder and said his name again.

He did not wake up.

Apparently, it was a stroke.  Grandpa had begrudgingly gone to the doctor a few years before and been warned he was at risk.  But he felt fine.  He wanted to live his life to the fullest.  Popping pills to get his blood pressure under control was not included in that.  If I had known about his health, I would have gotten on his case about it.  But he was secretive about that kind of thing.

His will gifted me his house and the garden.  I forget what else he left me.  Or anyone else.  At the reading, I just wanted Grandpa to waltz into the lawyer’s office.  With a scowl on his face, he would exclaim that he was still quite alive!

When I returned home—returned to his home—it was empty.  Dead.  I found myself drifting from room to room like a ghost.  Family photos.  Stray gardening tools.  The basket overflowing with seed packets.   All these familiar things felt distant.  Detached from myself and their previous owner.  Somehow, my feet took me out the backdoor.

Standing in the garden staring up at his favorite lemon tree, I finally remembered where I was.  What we had done there.  His life’s work.  His passion that would outlive him if I did anything to preserve it.

Falling to my knees, I finally connected with my grief.  My love for him.  The memories that would carry me through this.

Once I was out of tears, my mind wandered to the practicalities.  I would need a job to afford keeping this place.  The house needed to be painted, cleaned, and brightened before it fell to pieces around me.  I had to cancel Grandpa’s plane ticket.
I laughed at myself.  That the ticket was what brought tears back into my eyes.  But then it dawned on me.  Being the Grounds Master had been Grandpa’s dream.  Canceling the ticket would cancel his dream.  I could never do that.

But I could do something incredibly stupid and maybe a little selfish.

---

On June 1st, I walked up brick paving with my rolled luggage under gloomy English skies.  The order was just ahead.  And good thing too, this place really was remote.  A taxi had dropped me off on a dirt road an hour prior.  The cabbie said he would run out of gas if he took me the rest of the way.  My feet were sore by the time I reached the wrought iron fences.

Beyond the gate, I saw the first garden.  A tiered maze of succulents and tropical ferns that never should have survived so far north.  Grandpa would have been ecstatic.  As for the order’s main building, that remained invisible.  A 15-foot hedge towered over the fence along the property.  It made me wonder why the fence was there at all.

There was a callbox with a camera positioned above it.  Obviously, I was supposed to announce myself there.  I had hoped to make my introduction in person though.  It would be harder to turn me away if I were already inside.

I tried the gate.  Locked.  I glanced up.  The fence was tall enough to keep me from climbing it.  I sighed and pushed the call button.  “Uh… hello?”

After a long pause, there was a crackling static.  An old gentlemen’s voice crinkled through the speakers.  “Good afternoon.  I don’t suppose you’re here for a tour, are you?  We only do that by appointment, and there’s nothing on the schedule for the next few months.”

Odd.  I had come to terms with the fact that the British spoke in more accents than the quintessential movie accent.  However, he sounded distinctly foreign.  Maybe Spanish influenced?  That seemed wrong too.

“Perhaps, I should ask more directly.  How can I help you?”

“Sorry, I’m Ellie.  Ellie North.  I’m here on behalf of Ed North.”

“’On behalf of?’”

“Yeah, He—uh—passed away a couple weeks ago.  Between the funeral and everything…” I blinked my eyes clear.

“It’s not much, but I’m deeply sorry for your loss.  I never had the opportunity to meet Ed myself, but his articles in our journal were touching.  His passion for the field was evident.  It was why we hoped to have him this year.  A shame we won’t.”

“That’s why I’m here.  Instead of, you know, calling you.  I want to take the job.”

No response.

“Are you still there?”

“Yes.  Sorry.  I don’t know quite how to put this.” A tired sigh whispered through the speaker.  “The grounds are massive.  Much of our collection is delicate.  Even plants that are hardy in other climes require special attention here.  It wouldn’t be fair to expect an amateur to handle it.”

I bit my tongue.  Arguing that he was being rude in assuming my ability would earn me nothing.  “Grandpa taught me everything he knew.  I wouldn’t be here if I didn’t think I could handle it.”

“You’re not even a member of the society.”

“There hasn’t been an opening my entire adult life.” After releasing the call button, I added, “And it’s not like you let in a lot of women.”

“I’m sorry to disappoint you, but—” A distant jangle of music behind him.  A ringtone?  “One moment.”

Stepping back from the callbox, I scanned the surrounding area.  Grassy fields and rolling hills.  The only other feature was a small parking lot that could hold ten cars if everyone parked well.  The one vehicle there now was a rusty, blue pickup truck.  I spied a gas can in the passenger side seat.  Were we really that far from the nearest gas station?

The speaker remained silent.  Nervously, I fidgeted with the hedge’s leaves.  They were waxy and sharp.  Hard to hold onto.  They jutted out in all directions.  The top leaves reached for the sky and the bottom ones dug into the soil.  A tangle of skinny, brown vine had suffocated under their dominion.  I made a note of it, so I would remember to clear the vine out later.

A snapping startled me.  The gates swung open.  Crackling from the speaker, “Hurry up to the main building.”

No further invitation was required.  I pranced inside, sure the gate might close at any second.  Beyond it, I saw a micro plant garden to the right.  A row of greenhouses lined up further back.  Jumping to look over the short hedge in front of me, I spied a pond with a pier over it.  Floating specimen boxes were tied to the pier’s legs.  To my left, wildflower field beds were bounded by rose bushes.  The main building was that way.

Silly of me to have expected a castle.  Or maybe some red brick, academic hall to match their private drive.  The headquarters was a dark, one-story, stone building.  Maybe it was a summer cottage before the order acquired it.  It was still impressive compared to anything my family owned, but, for England, it was anticlimactic.  It would have fit better if the order called itself “Podunk Plant Club.”

When I reached the door, it opened on me.  A tall, 50-something man in holed blue jeans and a ruffled button-up stared straight down at me.  The deep circles under his eyes spoke to weeks of poor sleep. 

“Indeed…”  That word concentrated a rant’s worth of disparaging sentiment.

I glanced away.  My gaze landed on his hand.  He was pulling his own set of rolling luggage.

“Let’s be perfectly clear with one another,” he started.  “If either Bob or Phil were in the country right now, you would not be here.  But, I’m in a bind.  My number is by the phone.  Text me yours.  You have three days.  If you can manage to not kill everything—”  That same jingle from before.  He ripped his phone out of his back pocket and grimaced.

“Is everything all right?”

He huffed.  “My first grandchild is about to be born.  My daughter will never speak to me again if I miss this one.”  His tone carried the world’s weight in failed expectations as a father.

“So… congratulations?”

A pained smile.  “Thank you.  We’ll talk when I get back.”  He brushed past me, stopped, turned, and held out a hand.  “It’s Viktor, by the way.”  We exchanged a quick handshake.  Then, he hurried off.  I looked back to the building and took a deep breath.

Thankfully, the building’s layout was straightforward.  It opened into a lobby that was originally a dining room.  There was a kitchen at the back.  A business area was set up to the left.  Beyond it, flimsy-looking walls that did not match the cottage’s style created three offices.  To the right, a short corridor of bedrooms.  All of which were locked.

As I wandered left, I found the landline by a CRT TV, showing the gate.  True to his word, Viktor had left a sticky note with his number on the phone.  A pair of thick, damp, dirty work gloves sat next to it.  I texted him my number, wondering what he had been digging around in before I bothered him.

Another scan of the office revealed a cube of cubby holes in the far wall.  A key cabinet.  Most of the keys were numbered, but three had a letter plate.  V for Viktor.  R for Robert.   P for Phillip.  The heads of the order.  I assumed those keys were for the offices.  I pocketed one of the numbered keys—three—hoping it was for a bedroom.

The corner office had “Viktor” emblazoned in a cursive script on a steel plate.  The door was open, so I peeked inside.  On his desk sat a small, sad palm of some kind.  Its few remaining leaves were wilted.  A fibrous mold enveloped the dry half of its base, reaching towards its apex.  At least the roots looked okay.  Next to it stood a new pot, a bag of soil, and an anti-fungal.

I finished the job for Viktor.  Potting the plant, watering it, and removing any tissue too damaged to save.  The anti-fungal was out of place though.  This was clearly a mold problem.  Maybe Viktor was just too tired and had grabbed the anti-fungal on reflex?

After retrieving a bottle of apple cider vinegar from the kitchen, and I coated the mold in it.  I was careful not to let the acid drip into the new soil.  I would look up the plant’s pH-tolerance that evening.

Crossing the building, I tested the key on the third room.  It worked.  The door opened onto a bed, a desk, a wardrobe, and a wide window overlooking the back gardens.  Afternoon had faded into evening by then, and, even squinting, it was hard to see much.  The back gardens were westward, cast in deep shadow by the tall hedges.  A place to explore tomorrow.

As I left the view, I noticed something odd.  The window was three panes of glass thick.  Why three?  Maybe this old place had insulation problems?

I shrugged it off and went to the kitchen.  Dinner was canned soup.  Cream of mushroom.  Not my favorite, but Viktor had stocked 20 cans of the stuff.

After dinner, I unpacked my belongings and settled into bed.  I spent the evening scrolling the internet for Viktor’s palm and a few other specimens I had not recognized.  I fell asleep with my phone in my hands.  In the odd hours of the night, a gentle tapping on the window roused me.  The rhythm of rain.  I tossed my phone onto the floor and rolled over.

---

The next morning, I got up and, after discovering bread stashed in the freezer, made myself some toast.  The coffee was easier to find.  It was also stocked up for the apocalypse.  Viktor must have been a recluse.  He had bought up a world of nonperishables to tide him over for months.  I did not envy him lugging such enormous quantities of food from his truck to the kitchen.

As I ate, I heard pattering on the front windows.  When I investigated, I found water droplets spattered across it.  As I realized what they were, the sprinkler hit the window again, startling me.  Across the many gardens, rows of sprinklers washed the flowers.  Good.  If I had needed to water every single plant myself, nothing else was going to get done for the next three months.  I had bigger plans.

That reminded me of Viktor’s palm.  On the way to his office, I sent him a quick text:

Hey, where are the controls for the irrigation?  It rained last night but they’re all running.  I don’t want to waste the water.

The palm still looked sad, but the mold was less perky too.  A good first step.  I planned to wait another day before attacking the mold again.  My phone chimed.

Don’t worry about it.  There’s a rain meter.  If the sprinklers are on, it didn’t rain enough last night.

Okay, thanks.  Hope you made it in time.

I was late but close enough.  She forgave me.

The bar was that low, huh?  I snapped a picture of the palm.

Also, I did the best I could with this.  I’m about to check everything out.

My phone chimed again, but I let it be.  Viktor needed to pay attention to his family.  To his new role as grandfather.  That thought cooled my mood.  I shrugged it off.  Viktor and his grandchild had a lot to look forward to in this magnificent garden.  Hopefully, Viktor followed the doctor’s orders if he had any health conditions.

Outside, I dodged the spraying water as I trapsed around the property.  Identifying plants I knew and looking up the ones foreign to me.  Touching the thick succulents and running my hands over feathery ferns.  Weaving through a jungle green house of suffocating humidity and blinding lights.  Stumbling into another with dark tinted windows, so its phosphorescent mushrooms would shine.

I ended my journey at the pond.  Frogs jumped indignantly into the water as I passed them.  Strolling over the creaky pier, white frills shark-finned through the water as koi fish chased me.

I think that spot would have been Grandpa’s favorite.  He had always wanted to grow aquatics, but there was no space in his garden for it.  He would have loved everything about this place.  What would he have done to make it better?  What could I add?

Here and there, I had seen a leaf that could be trimmed or a flower ready to be deadheaded.  The gardens were otherwise immaculate.  The largest task before me was removing the vine by the gate.  And I was unsure how to keep the gate open while I worked, so that task was off the table.  It was impressive that Viktor kept so many different species in this state by himself.  No wonder he had looked exhausted.  I pulled out my phone to check the text from earlier.

You said Ed taught you everything.  Did that include dealing with the voluxia fentera?

I had no idea what that was.  Nothing came up when I asked the internet for guidance.  I had seen bookshelves stuffed full back at the cottage though.  I bet I could find it in there.

Yes, but I haven’t seen it yet.  Where is it?

After I hit send, I recognized the possibility that this was a test.  That “voluxia” was made up.  I racked my mind for any kind of excuse to save face if I had messed up.  I got lucky.

It’s behind the main building.  You can’t miss it.

I resumed breathing with relieved sigh.  My phone chimed again.

Are you sure you can handle it?  It’s grown too big, but it’s the only specimen we know of that’s old enough flower.  The next ones won’t be ready for another decade.  We can’t risk over-pruning it.

I’ll keep that in mind.

I waved goodbye to the writhing koi fish begging for scraps.  On my way to the cottage, I stared up at the blue sky between cloud puffs.  Such a contrast from yesterday.  Odd that it cleared so quickly after it rained.

I checked my weather app.  It had not rained last night.  Or so it claimed.  Maybe one of the sprinklers was misbehaving by my window.  I would check into that after I found the voluxia.

The leftward grounds behind the cottage were less impressive, but far more exciting.  A traditional garden.  Flowers, vegetables, trees.  Decorative stones.  Little ornaments.  All of it bounded by logs to keep the raised bed in place.  The sight of plump tomatoes and eggplants improved my outlook on the food situation.  None of it could be the voluxia though.  I moved on.

The rightward section was mostly lawn and three sheds.  Finally, I spied a tangle of something ugly in the far-right corner.  The closer I got, the uglier it became.  A bushy, olive-green vine mass.  They sported rose-like thorns with vibrant purple hypodermic needle points.  They grew from a contained, woody base supporting a massive flower bud.

I never had the opportunity to visit a corpse flower, but I knew its size from pictures.  Voluxia’s flower was half again as large, towering over me.  Royal purple veins permeated its dark green sepals.  Each ended with long, yellow whiskers, like the teeth on a Venus flytrap.  It looked like the petals were meant to open in a spiral like a rose.  Even closed, the flower gave off an invitingly sweet honeydew.

No matter how ugly the plant’s everyday form was, that flower would be majestic when it opened.  I understood why Viktor was so concerned about it.

Then I realized the woody stem was not the same plant.  It was something old and dead.  Under and between the vines, voluxia’s dark, ribbed, mangrove-like roots shot to the ground, spiraling around the dead trunk.  They left a patch of dirt where the grass had died.  For several yards around the plant, the grass was yellowing.  Voluxia behaved like a strangling vine, stealing nutrients from everything else and killing whatever had been underneath it.

I noticed the fresh runners next.  Skinny lengths of prickly stem creeping through the grass in all directions.  Was I allowed to prune those?  Yes.  The vine body was studded with thousands of cut tendrils.  This plant was aggressively invasive.

I squinted at the damage.  The tendrils had not been cleanly cut.  Nor had they been torn.  I was unsure what had been done to make them look bubbly and distorted.  Then again, who could guess how this bizarre organism healed its wounds.

In the nearest shed, I riffled through drawers, cabinets, and bins until I found a smaller set of light gloves and clippers.  The gloves were a size too large, but close enough.  I could search through the other sheds for a better fit later.  There was work to do, and I was excited to do it.

Returning to voluxia, I trimmed each of the runners off at the base.  Their tiny thorns were so sharp that they pierced my gloves.  Bur prickles stung my fingers as I tried to coil one of the tendrils.  Dropping it, I went back to the shed, donned a second pair of thick leather gloves, and tried again.  That was enough to protect me from the small spines.  The bigger ones toward the base still got through.  I handled those lengths carefully.

Most of the runners ended within the circle of dead grass, but some traveled astonishing lengths.  I found one seeking entry into the vegetable garden.  Another had climbed up and over the hedge.  Pulling that down from the hedge’s spikey leaves was a trip.  One had even made it all the way to the cottage.  It twined through a decorative hedge before draping itself on the windowsill.

As I finished rolling that one up, I glanced inside.  That was my window.  I remembered I wanted to check the sprinklers there.  Tossing the vine coil aside, I got down on my hands and knees to find the misbehaving sprinkler head.  There was none.  The hedges were watered via drip irrigation.  I guess my app was wrong and it had rained a little bit last night.

Gathering up the vine coils, I brought them to the composting bins behind the vegetable garden.  When I lifted the lid, I was surprised to see a mound of fresh runners already in there.  They had barely wilted.  I had assumed what I had trimmed was several weeks’ worth of growth.  Viktor must have started pruning them yesterday and got distracted by the sick palm.

I was ready to let it go, but the twisted bubbly ends on his trimmings confused me further.  What had he cut them with?  I shook my head.  I tossed my coils in.  The bin’s lid fell shut with a heavy thunk.

I found busy work to do for the rest of the day.  That evening, I stopped by the vegetable garden to harvest my dinner.  As I enjoyed a salad as fresh as anything Grandpa and I had ever grown, I skimmed through book after book.  Nothing was named voluxia.  I closed the last one with a sigh.  My face hurt from frowning and furrowing my brow so long.  How could there be no record of something so clearly valuable to the order?

It hit me.  This species, this genus, must have been discovered by the order.  Why they kept it a secret was beyond me, but surely there would be records about it in one of the heads’ offices.  I stood up too fast and had to sit right back down.

It was late.  I had worked hard.  I was tired.  My curiosity could wait another day.  I breathed deeply with my eyes closed as I waited for the dizziness to pass.

A muffed commotion caught my attention.  Something outside had shattered.  I dragged myself to my feet to look.  The windows were pitch black.  I remembered I had seen a flashlight in Viktor’s office, so I fetched it.  Once outside, I flicked on the light and swept the cottage‘s perimeter.

Nothing seemed out of order.  No signs that some extraordinarily determined miscreant had made it over the hedges.  For a moment, I basked in the insects chirping.  The pond frog’s bellowing and tweeing.  Whatever had happened, I would find it in the morning.  I turned in for the night.

---

After breakfast, I treated Viktor’s palm again and sent him another picture.  The mold had died back significantly, and I thought there was a little more pep in the palm’s leaves.  I planned to look for records on voluxia that night.

I spent most of the day in the green houses.  Technically, I had a half a degree in engineering.  Studying the green houses’ design to find ways to improve them appealed to me.  It was not the kind of contribution Grandpa would have made, but I had something else planned for that.

Grandpa always grew more produce than he could eat himself.  Even after I moved in, it was still too much.  He left milk crates of vegetables and lemons on cinder blocks by the mailbox.  Even the grumpiest neighbors caved and snuck by to take some.  Anything that remained unclaimed too long we donated to a local food bank.

I decided to sow new vegetables in the back garden.  All of Grandpa’s favorites that could be put in the ground now and be ready when my time was over.  I wanted to donate them before I left England.

I just had to get my hands on some fresh fish bones to make Grandpa’s blend of fertilizer.  The pond’s koi were out of the question though.  I would never kill them for that.  Maybe Viktor could pick some up for me.  Once his family had settled in with their new addition and he was ready to return anyway.

My list of wants grew longer after I finished inspecting the green houses.  They were outdated and rusting.  I could build a new one, move plants into it, and demolish an old one.  And then repeat the process until every green house was replaced.  A summer of that cycle sounded peaceful.

Before I headed to the back garden, I stopped by the pond again.  Kneeling, I dangled my hand over the water.  The koi swarmed around it, bobbing up and down to nibble my fingers.  I was still 90% sure that I would not borrow one of the fish from the over-populated lake.

When they finally realized there was no food and moved on, I scanned the bank.  The frogs were shy today.  Few had been on the bank when I approached.  There was a dead fish on the far bank.  I blinked.   Too bad for the fish, but today was my lucky day.

I trotted over to the body, slowing when I saw the state it was in.  It was a shriveled mummy.  I poked its sunken ribs to roll it over.  Its eye was missing, leaving deep, dark hole.  It was like it had been stabbed through.  I wondered how long it had been like this.  It must have been under the water before, or I would have seen it yesterday.  But its pristine, shiny scales would have become cloudy and started flaking off if it was old.  The other koi would have eaten it.

Gingerly, I picked up the koi mummy.  I was never one to look a gift… fish in the mouth.  It meant I could get started on Grandpa’s contribution today.  After dropping it off in the fridge, I went to the back garden.  My mind filled with vegetables.  Arugula.  Cucumbers.  Basil.  Scallions.  Visions begging to be actualized in the soil.

I stopped when reality stunted my dreams.  Everything in the garden was dead except the trees.  They were still dying.  Dropping bleached leaves onto the ground.  What in the world happened?  I stood slack jawed.  My hand fumbled for my phone.  I started typing.  Stopped.

I could not ask for Viktor’s help before I tried to figure out what happened.  I put the phone away.

Nothing I knew of could devastate a garden so quickly.  Regardless, I checked for signs of the usual offenders that ravaged plants.  No weevils, caterpillars, or worms.  No mold.  The shriveled white leaves were smooth and intact.  No fungus.  No black spot.  No buried colony of parasitic mushrooms devouring the roots of the crops.  I stumbled onto the remains of a tomato.  It had shriveled into a hard ball the size of a blue berry.

The moisture had been sucked out of everything.  Even the soil around the drip irrigation piping felt dry.  It dusted between my fingertips.  And then I saw it.  A vine tendril emerging from the ground outside the garden.  Climbing over the wood log barrier.  Diving back into the topsoil.

I missed it yesterday because it had been underground.  I hurried over to it and carelessly dug into the spot where it emerged.  A thorn cut me and I yelped.  Sucking on the wound, I retreated to the shed long enough to get my two sets of gloves and clippers.

When I returned, I stared down the hole I had dug.  The runner had branched off a thick tuberous mass.  A rhizome.  I should have guessed something would grow off those mangrove-y root-stems.  How could something this aggressive be rare?  Or delicate?  I glanced at the voluxia’s distant main body.  It would take me all day to dig the rhizome back to its source.  I clipped the runner and carefully tugged it out of the soil, following its path of destruction through the garden.

It ended at the tree and would not come up.  I fetched a trowel from the shed and dug it out.  A crown of thrones had wrapped around one of the tree’s massive roots.  All the needles were pointed inward to pierce the wood.  Pinpricks of drying sap cemented them in place.  The best I could do was clip off the free length.

I left it there and stalked over to voluxia.  My gaze trained on its roots.  Its lower vines.  The runners that dared to decimate the entire back garden with vampiric fervor.  A dozen tendrils draped around the plant’s base.  There was no way I missed that many yesterday.  This was new growth.

One by one, the clippers bit them off.

That job done, I glared at the greedy plant.  Its gluttonous flower.  I tilted my head.  The bulb listed slightly to the right.  Its purple veins bulged.  Fatted on plant milk and tree sap.  Barely able to hold up its own weight.  Its yellow flytrap teeth had curled back.  Perhaps it was close to opening.  I shook my head at it.  I never imaged meeting a plant I could hate.  I refused to let it get to me.

I started hunting the runners.  The ones entirely above ground only reached a few feet, but the buried ones deeply breached the property.  One ended on the cottage’s near side.  Next to it, another one dove out of the ground.  A second rhizome.

Clip.  Pull.  Follow.  The runner ended at the pond.  The forked end gently rolling in the water was not what stopped me.  Something was caught on the vine at the bank.  Or rather, the vine spear fished something.  One of the frogs.  Pierced through the belly.  It had shriveled into a rubbery skeleton.

The phone came out.

Viktor, what in the hell is this thing?  How does it grow so fast?  It killed everything in the back garden.  It ate a fish and a frog.  Why are you keeping it!?

My thumb hovered over send.  This admission would be the end of my tenure here.  It meant I could not leave Grandpa’s mark.  That I could not leave my own.  I sneered at the snarled vine.  There was good I wanted to do here.  I just had to tame that thing.

The rest of my day was spent digging up the two rhizomes I had found.  I left about ten feet of each alone.  Marked their ends with little lawn flags I had discovered in the second shed.  Tomorrow, I would find the rest.

As sun set, I sat in front of voluxia.  Staring at the brand new tendrils hanging from the base.  They were all at least 6 inches long.  The longest had grown from the freshly trimmed ends.  The bubbly gnarled stubs had no new growth though.  What had been done to them to stop it?

I finally made the connection.  There was a torch lighter on a bench in the second shed.

I fetched the lighter.  I burned off the tendrils.  The charred stubs writhed under the heat.  I looked at the lawn flags.  I cauterized the rhizomes next.

Exhausted, I put away my gloves and clippers and stumbled back to the cottage.  My blurry eyes refocused on a dark hump in the grass by my window.  No.  Not another runner.  Not another rhizome.  Not there.

I lumbered over to it.  Stared at the evil thing.  Traced the runner’s path with my gaze until I saw a glass fragment.  I stepped back.  The mulch was full of glass.  I looked at the window.  One of the panes was gone.  The second was cracked.  The runner’s needles gripped the crack’s edges.

“You cannot be serious.”  My voice cracked on those words.

I got the clippers.  Snipped the runner.  Stabbed them into the rhizome.  Left them embedded.  The tumorous mass would be exterminated tomorrow.  I ate canned mushroom soup that night.

All I wanted was sleep.  But I was afraid of my bedroom.  Sure, the runner was gone.  Yes, I had duct taped over the crack in the second glass pane.  That did not prevent a new runner from growing.  It did not guarantee the glass would hold.  I fell asleep in the open office space.  Shoved into a corner.  As far from voluxia as I could manage while remaining inside.

---

My sleep was fitful.  I tossed and turned.  Nightmares of needles and constricting vines.  Pricking, stabbing, piercing, digging, burrowing, devouring.  Thirst brought me to full consciousness at midnight.  I tried to pull myself to my feet, but I felt so weak.  So cold.  I bundled up in my blanket more tightly.  Pain prickled along my left arm.  My anxiety spiked.

Shaking, I unwrapped the cloth from my body.  Whimpered, “No.”  A runner.  Its needle thorns dug into my veins like an IV drip.  I was still asleep.  I had to be.  Trembling fingers grasped the runner’s tip.  Its thorns flexed.  I ripped it out of my flesh and dashed to my feet.  Toppled over.  Grabbing a chair for support.

“Oh my god!”  I coughed down the bile.  Blood running along my arm.  I ran to the bathroom.  Band-Aids in the medicine cabinet.  A joke.  Nowhere near what I needed.  I slapped half a dozen on anyway.  God, I was so thirsty.  I put my head under the faucet and drank and drank and drank.

The dizziness took me down.  I lay on the ground panting.  No.  Get up.  No time for this.  Where was the runner?  I forced myself to my feet.  Shuffled back to where I had slept.  The runner was still there.  Its tip now buried in my blanket.  Its imperceptivity slow movements only belied by the occasional fabric ruffle.

Good.  For a plant, it moved like lightning, but that was nothing compared to me.  Even crawling I could keep ahead of it.  As long as I avoided the spines.  Their snaring grip.  I followed its length into Viktor’s office.  It had eaten through the palm.  It had snuck through a crack in the foundation to come inside.

It had hunted me here.

No wonder the order had not let its members tend the gardens for years.  It was unsafe!  Though if they considered its current state “manageable,” what was it like when it was too dangerous to let someone else take over the burden?  That settled it.  Voluxia had to die.  No matter how rare or valuable it was.  It.  Had.  To.  Die.

I snagged a can of cooking spray from the kitchen.  On my way out, I stomped on the runner in the blankets.  I wanted it to let out some shrill scream of agony.  Instead, it just left a crunchy mush of thorns and plant goop.  No matter.  The flower would go out with a bang.

Next stop: the shed.  I grabbed the lighter and stormed to the far corner of the back garden.  Lighter out.  Cooking spray at the ready.  Entering the circle of dead grass, I slowed to a stop.  The vines around the main body seethed in rapid jerks.  A nest of spiny snakes, wriggling and turning.

My faith in my homemade flamethrower waned.  I would have to get so close to use it.  Wait until day.   Clearly, it was a nocturnal plant.  It rested during the day.  I could safely—

The vines froze.  The flower bud’s mass tilted in my direction.  Sepals spiraled open, revealing four white petals that reflected the moonlight.  Its bulbous neon-violet style glowed faintly.  Eight spotted anthers swirled to their final positions like stalked snail eyes.  The teeth on each sepal swayed back and forth.  As if it were breathing out the intoxicating perfume that filled the air.

I remained still.  It had sensed my presence, but perhaps it did not know where I stood.  I realized how quiet it was.  No frogs.  The insects were distant.  Only a shiver of grass in the breeze.

A cricket made the mistake of testing the silence.  One chirp.  The style twitched towards it.  Rustling.  The silence resumed.

Struggling to keep my breathing under control, I glanced behind myself.  Run away or back off slowly?  The main body moved so fast.  But it was rooted, right?  The mangrove stems.  The long rhizomes.  There was no way it could heave all that tissue from the earth to chase me.  But I was so close to those vines.  Running would make so much noise.

One careful step back.  The flower lazily lolled in my direction.  Another step back.  A third.  I collapsed with a cry of pain as something ripped into my calf.  The lighter and spray can flew from my hands.  

Needles bit into my clothes.  Tugged me forward.  I was too heavy.  The can rolled to voluxia.  The lighter was within reach.  Snatched it.  Clicked it to life.  Stabbed the flame into the vine that had me.  Too late.  Another found my ankle.   And another.

Prick after prick as vines coiled around my legs, my waist, my chest.  Dragging me closer.  Within reach of the full mass.  Within reach of the can.  I rolled forward to grab it.  Started spraying.  Barely got the flame to it.

The hush of streaming fire.  Dragon’s breath shooting into the darkness.  The vines around my body gripped harder as the plant scrambled away from the blaze.

It was no use.

The mangrove roots caught fire.  I sprayed more and more of them.  The vines around me loosened.  I stayed there until the can went empty.  Until the roaring blaze engulfing voluxia got so hot that it burned my hands.  Forced me to move back despite the needles shifting in my flesh.  I lay in the dead grass picking the thorns out one by one.  My eyes never left the voluxia’s funeral pyre.

I spent one more day on the grounds, digging up every piece of rhizome and burning it.  Viktor texted me, asking if things were going well.  He wanted to know if he could spend another week or two with his family.  I told him the situation was under control.

When I left, I made sure the gates were fully locked.  God only knew what other horrors sweated in the green houses, hid between the micro plants, or the swam in the pond.  I saw that little brown tangle of vine under the hedge.  Now, a single green leaf grew from it.  I panicked.  Ran to it.  Kneeled.  

Sighed.  Not voluxia.  No thorns.  That cheerful little leaf was fuzzy and patched with yellow.  Just some weed looking to escape.  I understood how it felt.  I wished it luck.

By the time Viktor’s two weeks of family time were up, I was safely back in the states.  My grandpa’s lemon tree was beginning to form little pods that would grow into fruits.  Counting them was a distraction from Mom’s not-so-subtle hints that now would be a good time to go back to school and finish my degree.  I was on number nine when my phone sounded of breaking glass.  A special text tone for Viktor.

Are you still alive?

I had been reading and ignoring his messages out of spite.  But it seemed unfair to put the burden of my fictional dead on his conscious.

Are you asking if voluxia ate me?  No.

What happened.

I took care of the problem for you.  Burned every cell of that thing.  You’re welcome.

WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT?

Because it tried to eat me.

Didn’t Ed tell you what would happen if you killed it?

No.

The last message I ever got from Viktor was a photo of the grounds from the brick path.  Patchy yellow vines had overtaken the hedges.  Crushed them under their unimaginable weight.  Tendrils draped over the wrought iron fencing.  Weaving around it.  Bending the bars.  The gate bulged apart as vines pulled on it from all directions.

The impossible size and strength of that plant was not what scared me.  What scared me was the tiny white flowers blooming all over its surface.  The flowers and their resulting cottony seed ball puffs ready to blow across the countryside.
